1884_02-22_Seymour-Record

SOUTHFORD

A company from Hull's HIll and Kttletown went up to a party at Shepaug last Thursday evening.

Miss Edith S. Jones, who has been teaching the Hull's Hill school, closed the winter term last week.

Mrs. John S. Osborn returned to her home in New Haven last week after visiting her old friends on Hulls Hill and Southbury a few days.

Quite a number met at the house of Samuel Knapp last Wednesday evening. Mr. Knapp has the misfortune to cuth his foot a shor time since and appreciated this neighborly visit.

Times of late have been quite lively about Hull's Hill and Kettletown in the way of parties. There was quite a number of the friends and neighbors met at the house of Mrs. Munson on Hull's Hill on Friday evening, the 8th, it being the 20th birthday of her son, Arthur D. Munson. The music was furnished by Carpenter and Peet of Great HIll.

OXFORD

Lewis B. Perkins was in town this week.

A. E. Arnold of Five Mile hill is soon to move to Bridgeport.

The Guild meets on SAturday evening of this week at the residence of Mrs. Elisha Wheeler in Southford.

Walter H. Perry has been obliged to leave his studies at Easthampton, Mass., on account of being a little indisposed.

Doctor and Mrs. Barnes and daughters attended the marriage of Randolph Barnes in New Haven on Wednesday evening.

E. B. Treat, teacher of the Chestnut-tree hill school gave his scholars a ride to the centre on Wednesday aftern and visitied Fred A. Bailey's school, and not to be outdone by Mr. Tingue he provided the children with oranges previous to their return home. Mr. T. closes his term of 18 weeks on Friday, the 22nd.

Notwithstanding the darkness and the bad traveling last Monday evening a house full of friends and neighbors in town and out of town assembled to pay their respects to Mr. and Mrs. Albion Hall at the residence of Mrs. E. A. Beach, mother of Mrs. H. on Chestnut-tre Hill, on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of theri marriage. Amont the numerous presents were two nice easy chairs with the compliments of friends in town. A beautiful collation was served and music was furnished by the Oxford band and thus passed one of the most pleasant occasions of the season.

QUAKER FARMS	

David Meigs has so far recovered as to be around again.

Mary Meigs from Waterbury has been spending a few days here.

Mrs. Chas. Hawkins has been absent from home a few days visiting friends.

Edward Tomlinson spent Sunday at his father's, H. E. Tomlinson's.

Mrs. H. P. Folley from Bridgeport spent last week at her home.

Mrs. Arthur Hinman returned Saturday from Stratford where she has been spending a month.

We regreet to hear that our neighbor, Mr. Albert Arnold is about moving to Bridgeport. Mr. Arnold has always been a kind and accommodating man and we shall miss him much as a neighbor.

Miss Jennie French, living with Mrs. S. S. Mallett the last three years left a few weeks ago and returned to Bridgeport, her native place.

C. C. Ryder who has been carrying on butchering for the last three years, has sold out the business to younger parties. We hope and trust the firm of Ryder and Walker will continue the business as honestly as the father has always done.

OXFORD

W. H. Perry returned to his studies on Tuesday.

There was a party at John Hawley's last Monday evening.

A pleasant ASh-Wednesday service was held at the residence of Mrs. L. A. Candee, conducted by Mr. McCracken.

Eugene C. Hull has rented and will soon move into the house of Ransom B. Hinman, near S. P. Sanford's grist-mill.

The Guild has been invited to meet this week Saturday evening at C. H. Butler's. During the Lenten season the exercises will be changed somewhat. All who desire to spend a pleasant evening are invited to any and all of these meetings.

SOUTHFORD

In the case of John B. Guthrie, of New Haven, against Alfred N. Wheeler and others, administrator of Elisha Wheeler of this place, the supreme court of errors finds judgment as follows: "We advise the superior cour that the action assumpsit may be maintained. That Wheeler is not technically a trustee, nor was he acting merely as executor, but was liable personally, consequently his estate is liable; that the plaintiff was entitled to one-half of the income annually after the death ofMr. Guthrie, but was justified in withholding payment until after the will was finally established; that the plaintiff is not estopped from claiming the income during the time the will was in litigation; that the taxes, expenses of managing the estate, of hay purchased for stock, and repairs on Bennett's bridge are to be paid out of the income, that loss of interest resulting from depositing the sum of $3,094.79 in the Townsend Savings bank should be borne by the estate of Elisha Wheeler.



