1941_August issue Yankee Pilot_Parachute Queen

Parachute Queen
By Freda Rengerman
________________________
PULLquotes IN ITALICS
A nineteen-year-old Connecticut girl went out to the airport with her family to make her first parachute jump, and before the experience was over it was nip and tuck whether she or the family had had the most exciting day. Now she jumps at air meets, gets $35 to $100 a jump.
________________________

Blonde Adeline Gray of Oxford, Connecticut, is teh only professional woman paracute jumper in her state. Twenty-three years old, this attractive girl started her unusual career at nineteen, and is now a veteran of twenty-two jumps.

When she was very small, Adeline performed "make believe jumps" from the roof of the barn into the hay-mow, using an umbrella for a 'chute. Adeline's mother put a stop to this when Adeline ruined all the family's umbrellas.  When she was twelve, Adeline heard about real parachutes and decided when she grew up she would be a parachute jumper.

She made her first step in that direction when, at nineteen, she took a course in parachute packing and theory of the jump at New Haven Airport. 

When Adeline made her first jump at New Haven Municipal airport, the jump had to be witnessed by a state inspector before she could get her professional jumper's license.

It was a great day for the girl when her family went with her to the field to watch her first jump. At the last moment the family broke down and begged Adeline not to go. But Adeline turned her back on the family, fled to the plane and climbed aboard. She had no fear for herself, she says -- this jump was an old dream coming truee -- but for her family's sake she did hope everything would turn out all right. She perched eagerly in the door waiting for the pilot's signal, "Jump." At 2,000 feet she heard it and plunged head first out the open door, into nothing.

She missed the airport and landed in the woods at East Haven. Some farmers working in a nearby field ran to help her. Watching the plane circling, they had seen something fall out and hurtle through the air.  They thought the plane's motor had fallen out. When the 'chute opened they decided the plane had had motor trouble and the pilot had been forced to bail out. It was hard for them to beliee that this pretty young girl had intentionally stepped out of an airplane, just for the fun of it!

A false report was received at the airport that the 'chute had been found without anyone in it. It is still a matter of argument in the Gray family as to who had the most exciting day, Adeline or mother and father.

Miss Gray describes her feelings during a jump in these words:

"As I dive outof the door of a ship, I experience a sort of restful, easy feeling, with the air rushing past me. As I drop away from the plane, the hum of the motor dies away into a peaceful silence.

I have actually no sensation of falling, and I would not be aware that I was falling, if it wwere not for my tumbling, seeing first the gound, then the sky, as I tumble downward, somersault fashion. The earth seems to be rising to meet me, yet there is  no feeling of fear, just a feelng of drifting through a quiet dreamland. Nothing could be mor peaceful than falling through space and then drifting slowly to earth after the 'chute has opened."

Adeline wears two 'chutes - as do all professional jumpers - one a chest pack and one strapped to her back. In case of failure of one, she pulls the ripcors of the auxiliary 'chute. She has complete confidence in her equipment as long as the 'chutes have been properly packed, and to be absolutely certain that her 'chutes will work, she always packs them herself. The only time she ever had trouble with a 'chute was once when someone else packed it and did a careless job. It almost cost her her life.

The incident occurred at Canaan Airport, Canaan, Connecticut. Adeline was scheduled to up immediately after she arrived at the field, and had no oppotunity to check the 'chute, so she trusted to luck, strapped the pack on, went up 2,000 feet and jumped. She pulled the rip cord, but nothing happened! She dropped a thousand feet before the canopy opened. The shroudlines were twisted, and as they unwound they spun her around in the harness like a time. During the excitement, Adeline lost directional control and landed in a swamp bordering the airport. She scrambled out. soaked and muddy, and determined never again to let anyone else pack her 'chutes.

In the twenty-two jumps, Adeline has suffered no serious injuries, but she has experienced minor discomforts.

The oldes incident occurred while she was doing a jump at Lancaster, Pennsylvania. She wore a bulk 'chute pack and had to fly in a very small plane. The only way she could it into the plane was to sit in the doorway and dangle her feet over the side. By the time the s hip had gained enough altitude for teh jump, Adeline was frost biten. On that landing she was dragged across the field by the wind, but her chief complaint was frost bitten hands an feet.

She had a terrifying experience during a Fourth of July jump at Lake Quassapaug Amusement Park.

"The wind upset my plan of landing in the park," says she, "and I found myself heading directly for high tension wires. I was terribly frightened and fought frantically to pull on the shroud lines and steer the 'chute away. Just our feet away, with my last ounce of strength, I managed to spill the air out of the 'chute and then I dropped like a rock. I landed with a terrific jolt in the middle of a traffic-jammed highway. Only the quick thinking of a traffic cop saved me from landing in front of a moving automibile. The spectators rushed over to see if I was hurt, but I didn't mind my scratches and bruises, I was so thankful to have escaped those wires!"

Adeline's headling dives into space bring her from $35 to $100 a jump, depending on teh danger involved. Airports get the advantageof price becasue they areless dangerous with their wide level landing spaces, free from dangerous obstructions. Jumps near water are a big risk, because the jumper might be blown into the water and be dragged under by the heavy 'chute an drowned before the rescue boat could get there.  "Amusement parks pay me well," says Miss Gray, "Because they are very dangerous with their ferris wheels, roller coasters and other moving equipment, and you know, we jumpers can't buy insurance.

A girl jumper gets a better price for her jump than a man, says Miss Gray because of the relative novelty.

"Queen of Parachutes" was the title given Adeline at the 1939 Cleveland Air Races. She performed at that event, and has jumped at most of the New England States. Most of her jumps have been at Great Barrington, Massachusetts and at Connecticut airports.

Adelines family takes her jumping career more calmly now, though spectators say that Mrs. Gray always breathes a sigh of relief when she sees the white 'chute billow out over he daughter. Adeline thinks her mother is a "swell sport about it all."

Four thousand feet is Adeline's highest jump to date, but she doesn't plan to stop at that.

She has a strong desire to do a delayed drop jump -- starting at 12,000 feet and falling free to 1,500 feet before pulling the rip cord. Another of her ambitions is to break the altitude jump record for women -- 28,000 feet -- by bailing out in the thin air at 32,000.

She'll need her mittens


