The Hartford Courant
PARADE OF YOUTH
Sunday, June 15, 1941

Oxford's 'Queen of Parachutists' Started at 19

Petite, blonde Adeline Gray, Connecticut's Only Professional Girl Parachutist, Practised For Career By Landing In Hay-Mow with Umbrella

By Freda Rengerman.

Petite, blonde, Adeline Gray, of Oxford, is Connecticut's only licensed woman, professional, parachute jumper. Twenty-three years old, this pretty girl started her unusual career at 19, and is now a veteran of 22 jumps.

As a very little girl, Adeline used to love to jump off chairs and tables, later in her grammar school days she was a tomboy who still loved to jump off things. Her favorite pastime was making "make believe jumps" from the roof of the barn into the hay-mow, using an umbrella for a chute. Adeline's mother put a stop to this when Adeline ruined all the family's umbrellas. 

Kite flying was another of her hobbies and she was always wishing that she could hang onto the kite and fly high up into the sky with it. When she was 12, Adeline heard about parachutes and and decided that when she grew up she would be a parachute jumper.

The girl took her first step toward realizing her ambition, when at 19, she took a course in parachutes from a professional jumper at New Haven Airport. This course consisted only of instruction in parachute packing, and the theory of the jump. Unlike the army parachutists now being tained, a professional jumper does not have to practice jumps from cabled towers, he learns by actually bailing out on first jump from a plane at 2000 feet!

He pulls the tip cord when clear of the plane, the chute opens and next he has to try and maneuver to a safe landing spot. Every "pro" knows that the landing is the most dangerous part of his job. Trees, rather than much publizcized power lines, are the jumper's greatest fear, they are harder to maneuver around.

When Adeline made her first jump at the New Haven Municpal Airport, this jump had to be witnessed by a State inspector before she could get her professional jumper's license.

It was a great day for the girl when her family came with her to the field, and while waiting for the inspector, her father paced nervously up and down the runway. Her mother tried to compose herself and pretended to be "not worried at all." At last the inspector arrived, Adeline's plane taxied up the runway, the motors reved up -- time to go! The family broke down. Mr. Gray begged Adeline not to go, her mother burst into tears. Adeline turned her back on the family, fled to the plane and climbed  aboard. On the way up, she couldn't forget her family, her mother had a bad heart, she prayed that everything would come out all right for their sakes. She had no fear for herself, this jump was an old dream at last coming true. She perched eagerly in the door waiting for the pilot's signal, "Jump!" 2,000 feet, she plunged head first out the open plane door into nothing.  "A wonderful feeling of freedom, solitude, then I noticed the earth coming up to me, quickly I pulled the ripcord, hard, the chute jerked open immediately and I was floating gently toward the earth."

She missed the airport and landed in the woods at East Haven. Some farmers working in a nearby field rescued her. They had seen the plane circling, then something had fallen out and hurtled through the air for 400 feet -- they thought the plane's motor had fallen out. When the chute opened they decided that the plane had motor trouble and the pilot had been forced to bail out. It was hard for them to believe that this pretty young girl sitting in their midst calmly answering their questions, had intentionally stepped out of an airplane, just for the fun of it!

A false report was sent back to the field, that the chute had been found without anyone in it Adeline's family was frantic with worry until she returned to the field safe and sound. It's still a matter of arguement in the Gray family as to who had the most exciting day, Adeline or Mother and Father.

Miss Gray describes her feelings during the jump in her own words: "As I dive out the door of the ship headlong into space, I experience a sort of restful easy feeling, with the air rushing past me. As I drop away from the plane, the hum of the motor dies away into a peaceful silence.

"I have actually no sensation of falling, and I would not be aware that I was falling, if it were not for my tumbling, seeing first the ground, and then the sky, as I tumble downward, somersault fashion. The earth seems to be rising up to meet me, yet there is no feeling of fear, just a feeling of drifting through a quiet dreamland. Nothing can be more peaceful to me than falling through space and drifting and slowly to earth when the chute opens."

Adeline carries two chutes, one for a chest pack, and one strapped to her back. In case of failure of one she pulls the rip cord of the auxiliary chute to save her.  She has complete confidence in her equipment as long as the chutes have been properly packed. To be absolutely certain that her chutes will work, she always packs her own. The only time that she had trouble with a chute was the one time that someone else packed her parachute, and did a careless job of it. It almost cost her her life.

The incident occurred at Canaan Airport, Canaan, Conn. Adeline was schduled to go up immediately after she arrived at the field, and had no opportunity to check the chute, so she trusted to luck, strapped the pack on, went up to 2000 and jumped. She pulled the rip cord, nothing happened, she continued to drop for 1000 feet, a century in time. The rip cord was pulled out, she held it in her hand. Then the chute opened, the shroud lines were twisted and as they unwound, they spun her around in the harness like a top. During the excitement Adeline lost control of the reeling chute and landed in a swamp bordering the airport. She scrambled out soaked and muddy and determined never again to let anyone else pack her chutes.

In her 22 jumps Adeline has suffered no serious injuries, but has experienced many minor discomforts.

The oddest of these was while doing a jump at Lancaster, Pa. She wore a bulky chute pack and had to fly in a very small plane, the only way she could fit in the plane, was to sit in the doorway and gangle her feet over the side.

By the time the ship had gained the altitude for the jump, Adeline was frost bitten. On that landing she was dragged in the wind across the field, but her chief discomfort was frost bitten hands and feet. Adeline's only other scar on her career was a badly skinned and bruised elbow which she got when she was dragged the length of a cement runway in the Cleveland Air Races.

The closest Adeline Gray ever came to death was at a Fourth of July jump at Lake Quassapaug Amusement Park. She describes it as her most terrifying experience:

"The wind upset my plans of landing in the park and I found myself heading directly for high tension wites. I was terribly frightened and fought frantically to pull on the shroud lines and steer the chute away. Just four feet away, with my last ounce of strength, I managed to spill the air out of the chute, and then dropped to the earth like a rock. I landed with a terrific jolt in the middle of a traffic jammed highway, only the quick thinking of a traffic cop saved me fron landing in front of a moving automobile. He saw what was about to happen and stopped the car. The spectators rushed over to see if I was hurt, but I didn't mind the bruises and scratches. I was so thankful that i had escapd those wires!

Adeline's head long dives into space bring her from $35 to $100, a jump, depending on the danger involved in the jump. Airports get the advantage of price because they are less dangerous, with their wide level landing surfaces, free from dangerous obstructions. Jumps near water are a big risk, because the jumper might be blown into the water and be dragged under by the heavy chute and drowned before the rescue boat could get ther. "Amusement park jumps pay me well," says Miss Gray, becasue they are very dangerous with their ferris wheels, roller coasters and other moving equipment, and you know, we jumpers have to think of hospital bills - and we can't buy insurance.

She has a strong desire to do a delayed drop jump, which will start at 12,000, fall until a mere 1,500 feet off the ground, then pull the rip cord! Another of her ambitions is to break the women's parachute jumpers record of 28,000 feet by bailing out up in the cold thin air at 32,000!



