1941_09-27_Manchester-Evening-Herald_Girl parachute jumper residing in this town

Girl parachute jumper residing in this town

Adelaide Gray to Attempt to break World Altitude Record of 26,000.

Four years ago a slight girl with blonde tresses accepted her High School diploma at the graduating exercises of the Seymour, Conn., and with it received special honors as one of the school's honor students. Today that girl -- Adeline Gray of Oxford, Conn., is the state's only livensed parachute jumper and a state licensed "rigger" or credited parachute packer.

Miss Gray, a slight quiet mannered girl, just out of her teens is now a resident of Manchester and is emplyed in the Pioneer Parachute Company plant. Her story is unusal in that it opens up a field of observation not usually encountered in dealing with subjects along human interest lines.

The first question fired at Miss Gray at an interview arranged by The Herals, was: "WShy did you become a parachute jumper?" It was a bold question but one that Miss Gray, in her quiet way, explained quite easily.
"I always wanted to be in the air," she said with earnestness. "There was something within me that forced me to take up aerial stunting as an avocation and a profression," she admitted.

One cannot readily associate a slight girl with as quiet a disposition as Miss Gray with the extremely dangerous job of parachuting yet here she was smilingly a admitting to a great desire to soar to new heights in the air and to drop great distances in the chilled atmosphere, delaying the opening of her 'chute until the whole earth below her loomed start and close by.

Takes Up Course

But her story belied the fact that she entered this new field for women with half-heartedness.

"After I graduated form Seymou High school with honors, I applied at the New Haven Airport for entry into the parachute and riggers course. My father, who objected strongly at first, drove me down twice a week from Oxford for the training courses.

"After three months I receied my license as a parachute jumper and rigger. There were four in the class - three boys and myself. I am th eonly licensed parchute jumper in Connecticut at present and one of but few women "Riggers" or parachute packers.

Three Leaps Yearly

A Licensed parachute jumper, Miss Gray stated, must take her tests before the State Aeronautical Department representatives, qualifying by approved jumps and packing her 'chute unnder close observation of AEronautical officials. To retain her license, she must make three jumpe each year, pass a rigid physical examination and to pack her own parachute in accepted manner, all under close observation.

To date Miss Gray has made 39 jumps from altitudes of 10,000 feet down to 2,000 feet and even in this short period she has had her share of thrills, which after all is part of her day's work.

Miss Gray, now after four years in the air as one of New England's greatest aerial attractions, specializes in "delayed drops" from altitudes of 7,000 feet and higher. On September 13, as a member of Howard Dutton's Sky Devils, an aerial circus group, Miss Gray did a 2,300 foot drop at the Bethlehem Fair in Bethlehem, Conn.  Connecticut regulatiosn forbid parachute drops from greater than 2,000 feet and the parachutist must open up their 'chutes within 1,500 feet of the earth. In Connecticut jumps Miss Gray conforms to state requirements in order to hold her state license.

During the past month Miss Gray has had plenty of aerial thrills. On September 14, at Keene, N. H., working with the Dutton show, she did a 6,500 delayed frop from 8,000 feet up, opening her 'chute at 1,500 feet to thrill a crowd of 10,000 people there. Last Sunday she repeated her act, starting at 9,000 feet and opening up at 1,000 feet, a straight drop of 8,000 feet at a speed of 150 miles an hour.

To Repeat Her Act

Tomorrow Miss Gray will take part in an aerial show at Glenns Falls, N. Y., in which she will repeat the act of last Sunday at Athol, Mass.

Higher and higher this slim wisp of a girl goes into the air, and closer an closer she comes to terra firma before pulling her rip cord. Anent the feeling of one falling earthward at express train speeds, with all hope before Eternity placed on her ability to pull out of her dizzy dive.

"The sensation of parachuting is just wonderful," declared Miss Grayson, her eyes lighting up as she told in detail about her chosen work.

"You know that parachute people must concentrate more than other people," she continued, "for ability to concentrate without nerve tension, is one of the prime qualities of a parachutist.

"When the place which is carrying me aloft has reached the required altitude, the pilot gives the signal and I just step out into space. Below me the whole landscape is spread out in a gigantic, misty miniature. Usually I carry a 25 pound bag of flour, to simulate smoke as I release it gradually as I am plunging downward and oddly the bag does not weight anythin, nor is any carrying burden to me in the drop. The heavy 'chute harness also is not noticed as I am dropping.

"In some planes I have to climb out of the cockpit; others, cabin planed have the door taken off, and I just drop off into space.

"How do you estimate distance on your delayed drops - how do you know just when to pull the rip cord?" Miss Gray was asked.

Come Into Focus

"That's easy, she replied. "The misty out-of-focus appearnce of the earth - noted from several thousand feet up, gradually diminiishes when I readh 1,500 feet. The objects on land, treets, rivers, houses and other things come quickly into focus sharply at 1,500 feet and when tht time comes ... zip ... and rip her open.

"How long does it take to drop 8,000 feet?" the jumper was asked.

Only One Minute

"About one minute," she replied. "On a quicck pull the parachutist counts four to enable him to clear the s hip. But on a delayed jump the parachutist just rolls into spins and twists and passes through all kinds of queer air currents - some up, some down, some sidewise - until the proper moment arrives for the pull on the rip cord.

"What happens after a sheer drop of 6,000 to 7,000 feet," she was asked.

"Often the risers or metal rings on the canopy whip by my head so fast that it almost knocks me out. In Keene, N. H., a couple of weeks ago I got a blackened left eye when the cords slapped me on the side of the head. The following Sunday at Athol, I got the other eye blackened and was almost knocked out. Last Sunday, after I got the crack in the head, someone gave me a "shot" when they reached me after the drop and my senses, and memory returned. It's peculiar that when I am struck like that my memory leaves me momentarily.

Objected To Flying

This young female parachutist had to overcome radical objextions of her parents to reach the status she occupies today as an experienced jumper.  Her father at the outset took her to the New Haven Airport but constantly objected to her flying and above all, jumping. As she tells it:

"I wanted to quit school and fly, but I had an agreement with her mother that I'd remain in school and do my very best for a chance at my hobby later on.

Parent Much Worried.

"Mother was a brick. She'd go to the airport with me and watch my jumps. While I was up there making ready to jump my mind would be on both dad and mother as I knew that they were suffering on the ground below. I had every confidence in my 'chute, for I always pack it myseld, but their was a different kind of anxiety. While I was principally concerned at the danger on the ground after I landed, they were worried about the opening of the 'chute.

All of her 'chutes opened, naturally, in those 39 jumps to date, but her most thrilling expeeince came last year while she was making a jump at the Bethany Airport. She straddled several high tension electric wires near the airport and onlanding cam down between several of them. Aftr landing, she met a farmer nearby who told her that the wires she narrowly missed in descending carried 4,600 volts!

Now her parents are more or less resigned to the situation they find themselves -- their daughter a sky-bird without wings, and evidently a rare one at that

Many Rough Landings

In many of her jumps, at landing, she has been hauled over ploughed fields, through briars and into brushlands, borne there fast by the wind-filled canopy of her 'chute. On one occasion she landed in a farmer's field, freshly ploughed, and when she came out with her parachute she resembled a Pennsylvania coal miner, her natty snow-white coverall was almost ruined.

"Parachute jumping is like no other jobs," Miss Grayson declasred.  "Once you leave the plane, you are on your own. What happens to you up there in those precious few minutes - is in your own hands.

Make Only One Mistake

"In other words, you have to be expert the first time you try. You can crack a car up badly against walls, poles or other cars and you may have another change after a brief spell in the hospital. If you forget your rules or fail to act at the right moment up there - you don't get another chance. It's curtains for you."

It's a dangerous game, this parachuting from the clouds for that is the favorite height at which Miss Gray likes to tumble down. She says she likes the feeling of the wind cutting sharply at her ears, the wind pressure on her nose, almost cutting of her breath, yet she happily whirls over and over again until the precise moment then to pull the cord and to see the beautiful canopy blossom out over her head, a reassuring and satisfying feeling.

Gets Into the Blood

Undoubtedly it gets into the blood, this thrill mania; former stunts soon go tame and the aerialist seeks new and greater thrill satisfaction. Miss Gray has a world of experience behind her for one so young, and she posseses perfect confidence in the outcome of each meet and jump, simply bubblig over with self-assurance that all will go well on the next try.

"The parachute is just a part of me," she said. "I have the feeling that only my hands should touch my parachute," she declared.

Miss Gray will not jump with a 'chute not packed by herself. While at a meet at Canaan, this state, she was given a choice of three 'chutes to use in her jump. She had time to pack but one, but in the last minute rush to get aloft for the jump, a 'chute not packed by her was strapped onto her shoulders.

The pilot of the plane took off and on reaching the proper altitude she cut loose for her jump. Down, down she went and at the moment of oepning the lines of the parachute snarled and she found herself in a "streamer," a situation where the lines of teh canopy become twisted and the canopy fails to open. After some hand manipulation, she managed to clear the shrouds and the canopy opene less than 800 feet fro the ground.

To Try for Record

For all of its actual danger thrills, Miss Grayson will have nothing else than high flying and parachuting. She has once competed in the National Air Races at Cleveland, in 1939. In that spot she made four jumps, one "spot" jump in copetiton and three group jumps. On one occasion she went aloft in a ten passenger transport and bailed out with nine others on exhibition, one after the other.

Miss Grayson is sure she can crack the present World's highest parachute drop for women, now set a bit more than 26,000 feet, by Marie McMillen. She will enter the next National meet at this specialty and plans to go to 30,000 feet before stepping off for her record attempt. She will ahve to use an oxyben helmet and will be trying for something she has had her heart on for years, to become the worlds greatest woman parachutist. It's our guess that she will not fall short of her goal. She's 100 percent conficent -- and that's half the battle won at the start.



