1942_06-04_Manchester Evening Herald_Local Paraachutist to Test Chute

PHOTO Caption: -- Herald Photo

Miss Adeline Gray of Essex, Conn., parachute rigger employed by the Pioneer Parachute Company (above) shown ready to enter the plane at Brainard Field for teh initial test jump using a nylon parachute. The material used in teh new parachute ia a Dupont product and the 'chute was made in the local plant on Forest street.

First Nylon 'Chute Jump Is Delayed by Bad Weather

The world's first jump with a nylon parachtue by Miss Adeline Gray, a rigger employed by the Pioneer Parchute Company yesterday at Brainard Field, Hartford, was cancelled due to unfavorable weather conditions after elaborate plans had been made by the company to officially recognize the feat.

The possibility of future scarcity of silk, universally used in teh manufacture of parachutes, has led the local parachute company, in cooperation with the Dupont Company and Cheney Brothers, to plan for the use of teh new fabric as an emergency wartime manufacturing material. Tests with dummies were made bu the first official live jump, from which the sanction of the Civil Aeronautical Administration was to be received and recorded, was accorded to Miss Gray, a native of Essex, this state, at her own request.

Has Much Experience

For more than two years Miss Gray has performed exhibition jumps with barnstormoing groups throughout New England and New York and for her sex has been expecially proficient in making delayed jumps from heights of over 10,000 feet.

Miss Gray was well photographed yesterday while the officials of the Pioneer Parachute Company were awaiting official work from the CCA to conduct the initial test. Cameramen from all the major picture services, independent agencies, magazines and news reels were on hand morning and afternoon awaiting the bud but at 4:30 the CAA officials stated that the ceiling at that time was not over 1,600 feet, and as the test required a clearnace of some 500 feet above the 2,000 foot level, or 2,500 feet, it was decided that the test must officially be called off.

Henry Mallory, president of the Pioneer Parachute Company and J. Floyd Smith, vice president and general manager and Lyman Ford, vice presidetn and sales manager, were present at the airport together with representatives of the Army and Navy to witness the jump. Several hundred watchers waited several hours morning and afternoon in the hope of witnessing the test of the nylon parachute by Miss Gray.
