504th Parachute Infantry newsletter.
PROP BLAST - December, 1942

GIRL PARACHUTIST

The following is from a letter from Adeline Gray, who has made 32 parachute jumps. Recently she tested the nylon parachute. The only feminine parachutist we know. Her letter is a reply to a letter from the editor requesting information. She very kindly granted us permission to print it.

In  your first question concerning position of feet when landing (in which you refer to a published picture showing my feet ina poor landing position) I naturally hope never to land that way, and I did not on this particular jump.

I had been slipping away from a concrete runway, and was turning to face my drive. I am not very strong and it is difficult to raise my weight enough for a proper turn, so I cross risers for a turn... I was wearing sandals on this jump for picture purposes.

I haven't had any training, just had to learn from experience,  including some hard knocks, trying as best I could to visualize every conceivable thing which could occur. I often wish I had access to training from experienced instructors.

Among my most trying circumstances are a small field, a strange pilot, a strong wind, an impatient crowd, which makes it extremely for a six or eight thousand foot free fall.

I've bruised my hip and side on a high tension line, and had my eyes blackened when I landed in a tree.

But I love to jump parachutes, including the hardships. There's something about it that makes it just seem to be lift itself. It must be wonderful to have all the opportunities you boys have. Parachute jumping is like nothing else, and I want to do some more...

I exercise regularly and ride a bicycle to keep in condition, but am just not strong enought to do much good pulling on my risers. I seem to have more success by properly positoning for the landing and using my hands to hold the reserve from my face.

I don't know exactly what made me take up parachute jumping, only ever since I was a little girl I always craved to fly in the sky. I have my own plane now.

I hope this letter will answer your questions.

I do wish the best of luck to all of you.

Very sincerely, 
Adeline Gray.
