CONNECTICUT CIRCLE
The Magazine of the Nutmeg State
Vol. V   June, 1942   No. 6

Adeline Gray - Chuting Star
Connecticut's Only Professional Woman Parachute Jumper

It was not magic carpet that wafted Adeline Gray aloft when she hitched her wagon to a star -- for she kept her feet steadfast on the firm ground of determinations and perseverance. But there is a magnet influence in that stellar attraction -- and it is a very tangible airplane that carries her higher and higher and a very dependable parachute that brings her safely back to earth.

In the beginning Adeline Gray knew what she wanted -- jumping with umbrellas from the barn room into her father's hay-mow in Oxford, Connecticut. She started at 19 - with borrowed money and her dream of a goal. There wasn't much practice at actual jumping -- but hours of study and packing work. And since fear of falling is inherent in most humans -- a parachute jumper must be sort of super. To maintain this choice of profession Adeline adheres rigidly to the wholesome habits that keep her physically and emotionally stable.

Her excellent physical fitness is attested by her record this winter of going to work on her bicyble every day, no matter what the weather. And her ability for utter relaxation is something any performer could envy. Perhaps no one experiences as much real enjoyment as Adeline does in jumping. She says she has no actual sensation of falling and would not be aware of it but for the tumbling, somesault fashion until she pulls the rip cord. The -- "Nothing could be more peaceful that drifting slowly to earth after the 'chute has opened. There is no sense of fear, but a nice restful, easy feeling."  Adeline has fun too and never misses the humor of a sitaution -- like the time she lost her shoes when the parachute opened and she landed in a tree. It took some time to free the parachute and Adeline suggesting having her supper tossed up to her.

Still in her twenties Adeline Gray  has jumped 36 times -- including Cleveland at the National Air Races -- and is aiming at an altitude record. During the summer of 19041 she was featured with a Sky Show which appeared in New England and New York. She caused a sensation when she bailed out of a plane at 8,ppp feet and while she was plunging to earth at 140 miles an hour she distributed flour into the air -- simulating smoke. She did not pull the rip cord until she had falled over 6,000 feet -- and that is over a mile. She has never sustained an injury.

Miss Gray has her own special exhibition equipment -- the larger parachute-pack fits snugly on her back and has the pilot chute which pulls the canopy out when the rip cord is removed.  Attached to a pair of rings on the front harness is a smaller emergency parachute. It is a valuable outfit, both 'chutes -- some 130 yeards -- are all silk. The shroud lines are strongly woven silk cords -- one of which can support 450 pounds -- and there are over a dozen of them.

No one could more fully appreciate her treasure than Adeline herself. She worked hard to earn it -- packing parachutes for the boys of teh Army and Navy at teh Pioneed Parachute Company in Manchester, Connecticut. She has a government rigger's license, is th3 first woman to inspect and pack 'chutes at Pioneer and is teaching other girls the interesting but strenuous art.

There has been many a heartbreaking deadlock to interrupt Adeline's aspirations but she has been a tenacious trouper. Her fearlessness is inspiring and the conficence the continuously places in pilots and parachutes should give plenty of courage to every one of us.

The luminance of the 'Chuting Star' will not be unnoticed -- for it is ever growing brighter.


