1946_Adeline at Mt Tobe Airport_Waterbury-Republican_Resorts Crowded as Ideal Holiday Weather Prevails

Resorts Crowded as Ideal Holiday Weather Prevails

Sunny weather and a temperature that reached 85 degrees yesterday drove Waterburians to nearby lakes, the shore and amusement parks, as the city observed its Memorial Day holiday.

Resorts throughout the state reported record Memorial Day attendances.

Hundreds crowded the buses to New Haven and Savin Rock, while still others jammed buses bound for Hartford and New York. Robert Latham, manager at the Exchange Pl. bus station said that on some trips the number of buses, required was doubled.

Auto traffic on state highways was heavy during the afternoon.

A spokesman for the New Haven Railroad reported traffic was only normal, and expressed the opinion the trains were not jammed because most peole were making only short trips and used private automobiles or buses.

A holiday atmosphere prevailed with flags displayed throughout the city. Business and industry suspended operations for the day and during the afternoon the central streets were virtually deserted. Some took advantage of teh day off to work in their gardens and yards.

Hundreds viewed the air show at Mount Tobe airport which featured Adeline Grey (Gray), Oxford, in a 2,000 foot delayed parachute jump.  Miss Gray was emplyed at a parachute manufacturing plant during the war and made the first "live jump" in a nylon chute.

Also feature dont eh air show program was John Bilotta, Waterbury, an ex-Army pilot with 1,000 hours, who, billed as the "Mad Russian," performed in a low-altitude stunt-flying attraction, using an Army P-47. Also shown were several of the latest type aircraft.

An official at the Lake Quassapaug resort estimated the crowd there well over 10,000 and reported that motor boats and other frides were heavily patronized all day. The restaurant at the lake was jammed with hungry patrons, and employees at the establishment declared "they hadn't had a minute to sit down all day long."

Richard Finley, manager at Sandy Beach, Quassapaug, said that despite the fact the water was chilly because of the heavy rains of the past few days, the number of bathers "was greater than on any Memorial Day in years."

Lake Compounce, Bristol also reported a busy day.

Waterbury police reported there was no recurrance of the robbery of flowers on graves such as occurred on Mother's Day. Police William J. Roach had posted special guards at all cemeteries in an effort to stop such vandalism.

A 16-year-old lad, Vincent Virgilio, 125 Wilkenda Ave. required treatmetn at Waterbury Hospital after he cut the sole of his left foot while swimming at Lake Quassapaug yesterday afternoon. He was discharged following treatment.


