1955_04-10_Bridgeport Post_Blonde and Beautiful Parachutist Recalls Her Early Days

By Villette Young
Remember thatlonde and beautiful daredevil, Adeline Gray, who defied death countless times as a war-time parachute tester?

Remember how you held your breath when she made that first nylon jump at Brainard Field in Hartford?

She's still around, but in a somewat different role -- as housewife and mother in South Britian. Her most dangerous feat during the past six or seven years has been the racd with the stork each time one of her three children was born. 

Sill Flies

That doesn't mean, mind you, that the Connecticut girl's jumping days are over of tht she doesn't put her pilot's license to good use whenever she gets a chance. She has her own Stinson monoplane, a cabin job, which she files each Saturday and Sunday from the Danbury airport. It's just that she is patiently waiting to try out the parachute release meachanism which she and her husband, Kenneth W. Johnson, have developed and patented.

The 'chute can be released either manually or automatically, and is automatically operable even after a person or object has cleared the plane. The invention is designed especially for parachutes used in cases of emergency -- and thus one of the greatest woman daredevils is doing her bit toward safety in the air.

While still a child Adeline Gray was so determined that she wanted to be a parachutist, that she would take an umbrella and jump ino a hay-mow on the family place in Oxford. They had moved there not too long before from Seymour where Adeline was born and where she was graduated from high school with honors.

Family Opposed

At 19 she went in training seriously in spite of teh fact that her family did all they could to divert her to something a little less active and dangerous. After she was graduated from high school, she applied at the New Haven Airort for entry into the parachute and rigger's course. Her father, who objected strongly at first but sound found that he had to give her her way, drove her there twice a week. After three months she received her license as a parachute jumper and rigger; along with the three others in her class, all of whom were boys.

They still joke about her first big jump at the Municipal Airport in New Haven, a 2,000 foot one, because instead of being a bit timid about the whole thing she acted as if someone were about to treat her to an ice cream soda.

With that beginning, Adeline went on to greater heights -- and thrills. There was the time she missed the airfield entirely and landed in a field because the bag of flour she used as a smoke trail fogged her goggles.

Dangerouse Delayed Jumps

There were those untold "delayed jumps" in which the 'chutist waits until the last possible second before opening his 'chute. The minimum in Connecticut is 2,000 feet, for the state frowns on circus stunts. But Adeline has made 8,000 to 10,000 foot drops in which she has delayed pulling her cord until she was 1,500 feet from the ground.

The nearest she ever came to "blacking out" in a jump was at the Bethany airport when she came down parachute oscillating. She skimmed over the ground at first but then went into the air a bit before she landed with a thud on her back.

Everyone thought she was "out," and cried of "get a doctor" were sounded. But Adeline soon assured one and all that medical attention was not needed, though they say her eyes were as big as saucers.

As it must in such a business, things do occasionaly go wrong. Adeline suffered a sprained back adn other injuries, all miraculously of a minot nature. All she took with a sense of humor, as part of the game.

Lost Her Shoes

One time, for example, she lost her shoes as she landed in a tree. While she waited for her 'chute to be freed, Miss Gray suggested that her dinner be served up to her.

When Adeline was 21, she was the onli licensed woman parachute jumper in New England. She spent the war years as a packer and rigger for the Pioneer Parachute company in Manchester, Conn. But her real fun came on the week-ends, up dangling at the end of a twisting 'chute.

Adeline describes the sensations of jumpimng in this fashion:

"As you drop down you have a free and easy feeling as if suspended in the air on a feather bed; of course you hear the rush of the wind which amounts to a whistle if you make a long delayed jump. After about 1,000 feet of dropping, however, you get a strained feeling all over with quite a ringing in your ears."

She recalls, too, one jump when she had a bad head cold. This time the ringing in her ears and pressure in her nose was much worse than usual but miraculously and mysteriously her cold was gone when she landed.

Air Pressure Changes

Saying that there is little if any sensation in a short delayed jump, she adds that you definitely ralize the change in air pressure as you drop. Sometimes you do a coplete somersault if you don't have your hands outstretched, a difficult thing to do if you are carrying a bag of flour or feathers to strew the route so on-lookers can watch your fall.  An experienced jumper can tell when the ground is 1,500 to 1000 feet away even though the ground may look a bit hazy.

Pointing out that even an experienced parachutist feels a teriffic jerk when the rip cord is pulled, she went on to say that is the 'chute is not strapped tightly around the wait, the opening shock often forces it up to your face. For this reason she made some special straps for her own parachute which would hold it in place.

It may be interesting to know that the lines are known as shroud lines and the risers are part of the harness to which the lines are attached. These may be manipulated by the jumper in order to steer a course or prevent oscillation.

Interest Continues

Though Adeline isn't doing much real jumping these days, her interest n 'chutes contines through her husband's and her invention.

He was born in New Haven and for years has monkeyed with things mechanical. During the war he was at Yale University working on mechanical and research development. They both feel their inention is badly needed. 

Parchutes are safer than that umbrella with which Adeline launched her career, but there 's nothing so good that it can't be made better. As a maker of 'chute history, this Connecticut housewife has a stake in the matter.


