Atlantic Flyer July 2003, page 26
Rigger's Notebook, by Jim Bates

Adeline Gray - Parachutist

Before being a mother of three, Adeline Gray had a life of different excitement - a life in aviation as a pilot with a plan to fly for her country during wartime. Ultimately, in lieu of that wish she served her country as a parachute rigger and test parachutist.

Born and raised in seymour, Connecticut, the young woman had an early interest in being a flyer An omen of her future happened when she used umbrellas to jump from a barn roof into a haw mow on her family's pladce in nearby Oxford. Her mother made her stop those "make believe" leaps when the family's umbrellas were ruined. By age 12 Adeline learned about Joe Crane, a famous parachutist and decided she wanted to be a parachute jumper. But first there was schooling and growing up. Her interest int he sky continued with a lot of after-school kite-flying. After her "dare-devil" umbrella escapades she went on with formal education until she graduated from Seymour High School with honors.

At age 19 Adeline overcame her parents' objections to her plans for a risky future and persuaded them to let her enroll in a student flying course at the New Haven Municipal Airport. She promptly got a job in a 10-cent store to pay for flying lessons. Though her folks kept discouraging her interest, her father, admiring her persistence, nonetheless drove her to and from the airport for twice-weekly lessons.

Adding to that aircraft instruction she also learned parachute packing and the theory of jumping from a professional jumper. The idea of being a parachutist still intrigued her.

Her goal in flight training was to log 200 hours of flying time and training in the many topics needed for qualifying as a federally licensed commercial pilot That would make her eligible to join a federal government wartime program as a ferry command pilot of militayr aircraft in the States and to overseas bases. World War Two was in full progress and women were needed so male pilots could fly in combat rather than being confined to moving badly needed planes from one place to another.

She slowly garnered hours in the air, flying within three miles of the airfield and only on Sundays, and spent time in airport classrooms. She also carried on with learning about parachutes and planning for her first  jump. Her jumping instructor told her she was crazy = that he didn't think a woman would make a good jumper. But she persuaded him otherwise.

When those latter studies were done three months later (three young men also went through the course) she applied to the state of Connecticut for permission to make a jump, then had the parachute she was to use inspected and approved by state authorities. Though parachutes had been in use for nearly 20 years by that time, there were not many civilian jumpers and authorities required bereaucratic rigmarole for an ordinary citizen to make a jump purely for recreation or an exhibition. (The first intentional freefall jump with a manually operated parachute was made on April 28, 1919 and the first emergency bailout with a freefall rig had been made by military test pilot Lt. H. Harris on Oct 22, 1933.)

In 1937, at age 19, educated and tained in parachute theory and usage, Adeline was ready for her first jump, the last qualification to be met to become a licensed parachutist. One more time her parents, who accompanied her to the airport, tried talking her out of her plan, with no luck. Adeline's mind was set. She quickly put on her equipment and strode to her waiitng plane and pilot. A state inspector was on hand to witness her effort.

At 2,000 feet, and at the pilot's command, she dove head-first into space. She fell at increasing speed, tumbling for seconds, then pulled the ripcord. The parachute canopy spilled quickly, filled with air and a wrenching jolt stopped her fall. Air was abruptly and forcefully expelled from her lungs. She heard hearself grunt loudly. With that might exhalation, Adeline felt relieved at her sudden stop. She was astonished at the silence during her descent and the vast panorama below as she kept lowering. Confused by the magnitude of the strange new vista, she tried to identify the airfield among the fields and forested areas and the nearby city. Then she could see the airport, that she was steadily drifting away.

She immediately was elated by her success and kenw she would jump again. She landed safely off the airport, but she had earned state Authorization as a parachutist. She made several other jumps, earning money as a parachut rigger, and two years later she was invited to make jumps at the 1939 Cleveland Air Races. Then she became a member of Dutton's Sky Devils as a parachutist in their air show circuit in New England and New York.

In December, 1941, just after Pearl Harbor was attacked and American entered World War Two, Adeline was hited by Pioneed Parachute Copany in Manchester, Conncticut as a parachutee rigger. Pioneer, in conjunciton with Cheney Mills, also of Manchester, was planning to make personnel paracute canopies using Cheney's nylon fabric (made of a Dupont synthetic filament it named nylon) to replace silk material rapidly becoming unavailable from Japanese-controlled Asian locations.

In earlier days cotton fabric had been widely used to make hemispheric parachute canopies. It served well for years, but had many shortcomings. In time aeronautic laboratories developed improved cotton yarnb that coudl be made into
high strength, low weight parachute fabric. In the 1920's filaments produced by silkworms was found to be superioe in many respects to cotton yarn, and parachute fabrid thereafter made of stornger, more flexible, lighter weight cloth made of silk. The majority of silk filmanet was produced in theOrient where silkworms were readily raised and could feed on the leaves of mulberry trees, ultimately making dense cacoons from which lengthy filaments could be drawn to create silk yarn convertible into fabric.

The end of sources of high volume silk filament production stimulated intensive searching for synthetic substitutes. Lab researchers at Dupont developed what they called "nylon" and introduced silk hosiery at the 1930 World's Fair in New York City. The rest is history.

Synthtic materials had alreayd been used to make rayon cargo parachutes, but they were unsuitable for human passengers. Mor than 20 tests of nylon canopies had been done using heagvywight dummies and over a wide range of deployment speeds, but a "live subject" trial was need for military acceptance.

Adeline, noted fo rher parachutig, and a Pioneer emplyee, volunteered to make a test jump beofre an audience of 50 critical army and navy observers. It went as planned on a sunny day at Barinard Field, an airport adjacent to the wester edge of the Connecticut River in Hartford

Since that day moe than 60b years ago many hundreds of thousands of personnel jups have been made with nylon parachute canopies, buth in tactical assaults and to also save lives in emergency bailouts.

In the 1950s sport parachuting started and grew phenomenally. Now termed skydivng, parachutists can be found worldwide.

Way to go Adeline.

###



