1883_06-01_Seymour-Record

Today's Old News is from the June 1, 1883 issue of the Seymour Record. The story of the school children and the raccoon family reflects a former time when school rules were quite different. 

The school location is shown in the 1868 Beers Map: Red City was along the present Route 67, roughly following Little River.  In the map, the lower right turn off Oxford Road is Hogsback Road, and the "Y" in the road near the top of the map section is where Christian Street meets the Oxford Road. The schoolhouse, listed as School No. 09, is the present 32 Old State Road. That photo is from the Historical Society's book, Historic Buildings of Oxford Past and Present.

OXFORD.

Last Monday afternoon the scholars of the Red City School discovered an old coon with its young ones in a hollow tree in the woods nearby. The sight of these wild strangers caused great excitement among the juveniles, and the teacher, Miss Hubbell, was summoned to assist in the capture, which was easily accomplished as far as the young ones were concerned, but the old one contested the right to have their rights so ruthlessly trampled upon, but by the aid of Mr. Philo Gillett, who came upon the scene, the entire camp was captured, with only one casualty to the attacking party. Mr. Gillett was slightly wounded by his finger coming in contact with the weapon of the enemy. The children took the young coons home alive.

Miss Cora Baily, Ransom Hinman and John Barnes, attended the ordination exercises at Middletown on Wednesday.

M. Clark Davis' new coach runs so still and with that familiar chuck we are not warned of the coming of the U. S. mail until we see it.

Mr. Fred Lum has been called to Ripon, Wis., where his brother Henry is very low from the effect of a cancer. Fred, expected to start for the west on Thursday.

SQUANTUCK.

P. & E. Tomlinson have bought the engine and boiler from E. D. Tomlinson, and moved them down to their works, and are preparing foundations to set them upon.

There are several dogs running at large in this neighborhood that have not been registered yet.

Mr. Clemons has recently put in an iron pipe in place of the lead pipe to bring water from the spring to the house.

Chas. Hoyt received a severe bruise from a stick thrown by a rolling log. He is about on crutches.

Andrews' steam scow has commenced towing timber and wood to Birmingham .