1883_09-21_Seymour-Record

Today's Old News is from the September 21 issue of the Seymour Record. The article refers to several members of the Treat Family of Chestnut Tree HIll. Elijah B. Treat was the great grandfather of Robert DeBisschop. Elijah's father and his son were both named Atwater. The Atwater Treat mentioned as Clerk of the Clark Fund was the father of Elijah B. Treat. The baptism of the infant son was Atwater C. Treat. 
 
OXFORD
 
The morning service will be omitted in St. Peters church next Sunday.

The Advertiser is out this week enlarged to 15x5 1/2, success to Johnny.

The town reports will probably be ready for distribution next Monday.

Miss Ella M. Lines commenced teaching a school in Middlebury last Monday.

C. B. Perry sailed on the steamer Knickerbocker for New Orleans, last Saturday.

Fred A. Bailey, son of Rev. Mr. Bailey, has been engaged to teach the centre school, which will commence Oct 1st.

The infant son of E. B. and Sarah A. Treat was baptized in St. Peter's church last Sunday, Rev. Mr. Bailey administering the rite.

The democrats of this town will nominate candidates for town officers at the town hall on Friday evening of next week, Sept. 28th.

The Guild Glee Club gave a serenade in front of the post-office and several residences last Saturday evening. The next meeting of the guild will be held at the residence of C. H. Butler on Saturday evening of this week and a general attendance is invited.

The annual meeting of the 3d or Chestnut-Tree Hill School district was held last Friday evening. E. Wales Chatfield was elected committee and treasurer, and E. B. Treat clerk. Atwater Treat, who has been trustee of the Clark Fund for 32 years, was reelected for the 33d term. This fund was given to the district by Sheldon Clark in 1840. A sketch of his life, with portrait, may be found in the History of Seymour, pages 227-9. [EDITOR’S NOTE: This book is available online at https://archive.org/details/historyofseymour00shar_0 ] The last winter term of the school continued 16 weeks, and the summer term 14 weeks. The average attendance for the winter term was 12 1/3, for the summer term, 12. The whole number registered was 20.

The old records of the district are a curiosity, in the rates of wages recorded as paid to teachers. On the 16th of March, 1849, this district voted to employ a teacher for six months at $2 per week and board herself, and about this time Miss Nancy Humphreys taught for $1.25 per week and boarded herself. An old resident offers this explanation of these low prices of thirty odd years ago, that the young ladies boarded at home and taught simply because they liked the occupation and for a little dress money.