1882_06-15_Seymour-Record

Today's old photo is of the Oxford Railroad Station which was located in the Southbury section of Southford.
The photo is part of a presentation by Donald Woodworth which will be presented at a special program at Great Hill United Methodist Church on July 29 at 7 p.m.

The Old News is from the June 15, 1882 issue of the Seymour Record, which copied the article from the Waterbury American.

SOUTHFORD. [From the Waterbury American.] 

In 1853 Daniel Abbott began the manufacture of what is known as "loft-dried straw board," used for match boxes, in Southford.  The capacity of his mill was 1,000 pounds per day of finished stock. There was then four water privileges aggregating a fall of 64 feet. 

Mr. Abbott sold out to Robert Limburner who continued the same line of straw board manufacture till 1868, when a Sour and feed mill owned by him, a little above the paper mill, was burned, and the property was bought the following year, by the Southford Manufacturing Company.  

The latter company united the four privileges into one power which was applied to the paper mill, giving it a capacity of three tons of steam-dried straw-board a day. This company also bought the water privilege at the outlet of Lake Quassapaug, thus acquiring the sole right to draw upon that magnificent reservoir.

The mill was continued under the management of this firm till the fire of Sept. 12, 1881, when the paper works were completely destroyed. Then a company was organized with a capital stock of $100,000, under the name of the Southford Paper Company. This company bought up the Southford Manufacturing Company's site and privileges and soon began the construction work of a new mill which is now in progress. 

The officers of the new company are Waterbury men and most of the stock is owned here. The officers are: L. C. White; president; George L. White, secretary; Alfred Wells, treasurer. The superintendent of the company, Frederick Keeney, who occupied the same position with the old company.

The building now in process of erection by the Southford Paper Company occupies the site of the paper mill, but overlaps on all sides to fully four times its extent. The ground dimensions of the building are 204x76, besides a boiler house 34x281/2. The height of the building will be, front, two stories, rear, two and three stories. The side walls of the lower story are built of very heavy masonry, the Waterbury Contracting Company having the contract for this branch of the work.   

The stone required for this purpose is quarried from a ledge adjacent to the work, not six rods away. The fall of water as been stated, is 64 feet from the surface of the dam to the level of the old wheel pit; but in order to obtain a still greater power, the bed of the stream is being excavated 28 feet lower. This will give a total fall of 92 feet. Three turbine wheels will be used for the utilization of this immense force, the main one to be 41 4/12 feet below the first floor of the mill. The upper walls will be of brick, and Chatfield & Chatfield of this city will build them. An immense chimney, 94 feet high, will rise from the northern end of the mill; this is more than half completed ready. The work above the masonry will require 600,000 brick, which are largely delivered already. It is expected to have the mill enclosed by the first of July and the machinery in and ready for operation by October 1. The machinery will be new throughout and adapted chiefly to the manufacture of fine manilla paper. The heaviest portion of the contract work is the digging, through solid rock, of a canal 762 feet long to serve as a tail race for the new wheel. This canal varies in depth from 28 feet at the wheel to five or less at the outlet; it is 25 feet wide at the top, and 16 on an average at the bottom. Steam and horse-power derricks are used to hoist the broken rock, loosened by great charges of dynamite, from the bed of the canal to the side where it is piled in a great winrow. The canal is being cut at the bottom of one of the wildest and most picturesque glens in the country, where the Eight Mile brook, as the Quassapaug river is called, has rollicked and roared for ages. In order to successfully prosecute the excavating of this great work it was required that the brook should be made to course in a new channel temporarily. 

Hence a canal was excavated upon the mountain side, way above the old time channel and, by means of a long, heavy flume, beginning above the mill, the water was conducted across the chasm and into its artificial course where it splashes and roars in its self-confident strength. As giving some idea of the tremendous force of the stream, it is here stated that the descent of the flume is but about two inches to the foot at the upper end; yet a jagged fragment of rock, of 150 pounds weight, rolled into the sluice at this point was impelled by the waters as though it was but a feather and sent crashing into the lower canal as if hurled by a catapult. The work of digging the long canal was begun in November and is now half completed, but the rapidity of progress will be twice as great henceforth as during the winter. The carpenter work of the mill is under the direction of B. H. Eldridge, of this city, who went to the scene of operations on Monday. The architect is A. L. Johnson, of Birmingham. 

The New England Railway runs but a short distance above the mill, thus affording superior shipping facilities. Aside from what is required for the local trade in this city, the company will ship their product directly to the consumer. Manilla paper is made from the jute stalk, about six inches of the butt of which has a tough fiber suitable for the purpose; sacking is also used. The jute is imported from India in bales weighing some 300 pounds each.

The Southford Paper Company is located npon what is the best and most available water power in the State. It is a power that has been recognized since King George's time. A grist mill was in operation there more than one and a half centuries ago. The place was then called Slap Jack and the mill helped to perpetuate the name by making the flour of which the "slap jack" was made. 

When the immense new mill goes into operation new life and vigor will animate the village and Southford will become an important point.

