2019_03-14_fb_1883_03-16_Seymour-Record

Today's Old News is from the March 16, 1883 issue of the Seymour Record. The article mentions a sermon in St. Peter's church which outlined the meaning of the figures shown in the stained glass windows of the historic church. These windows are featured online at http://www.our-oxford.info/Churches/st-peter-windows/windows_of_st_peter%27s_church.html based on a booklet published under the leadership of the late Myrtle Rowland in 1998. The windows are further outlined and beautifully illustrated in Windows of the Word of God, a book by Pauline K. Manville, which is still available through the author. The cover of that book is today's photo.

OXFORD

There will be services in St. Peter's chureh on Fastday, at 11 a. m.

A fair number, considering the traveling, assembled to listen Rev. Mr. Roberts last Wednessday evening.

The new dressmakers have not as yet got their sign out. although it has been in readiness some time.

John MeCune locates with the Postal Telegraph Co. at Westfield, Tioga Co., Pa., for the present at least.

Reports add still more to the list of the many changes and removals in town this spriug, and it is said that F. L. Davis is to leave the home of his birth, on Chestnut Tree Hill, and move to the Chas. D. R. Perkins place, soon to be vacated by John B. Pope, and that Henry Lane is to occupy Mr. Davis' house.

Mr. McCrackan, lay reader, who supplies in St Peter's church when Rey. Mr. Bailey is absent, made it very interesting and instructive to the Sunday School last Sunday noon, in explaining the meaning of the different figures and emblems in the chancel window. In fact they afford a good opportunity for study to the old as well as the young.

The sad news of the death of Mrs. Geo. Hawley, which occurred late Sunday night, was very surprising to many, especially those who had not heard of the deceased's illness, which was only of a week's duration. The husband and four children have the sympathy of the entire community in their loss of a kind wife and mother. The funeral was attended from the house on Tuesday afternoon, Rev. Mr. Snow officiating, with a few remarks from Rev. Mr. Bailey.

