1883_10-05_Seymour-Record
OXFORD.

Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Snow were in town this week.

Walter Perry and John Barnes have commenced their studies at the Williton Seminary, Easthampton, Mass.

George Hawley moves to Seymour this week with his family in order to be nearer his work.

The Guild meets this week at the residence of Dr. Lewis Barnes, on Saturday evening.

Mrs. G. W. Cable has been on a visit of about a week to her parents in Boston.

Rev. Mr. Spaulding of New Haven officiated in the Congregational church last Sunday and is expected next Sunday.

There was a Sunday School concert in the Congregational church last Sunday afternoon.

The Ladies society of St. Peter's church will meet at the rectory on Friday afternoon and evening of this week.

Glover W. Cable expects to start for St. Domingo next week. He goes in the employ of Franklin Farrel, who is to build in connection with his sugar interests there.

Thomas Collyer who works for Meigs Brothers, Quaker Farms, broke a leg by stepping off the side of the path while walking along the highway last Monday evening.  Dr. Barnes was called in.

At the republican caucus delegates were elected as follows, County, W. W. Hughes, R. B. Limburner; Senatorial, E. J. Thrall, Wales Chatfield, R. G. Robinson, F. W. Hubbell.

The office of 1st selectman is now located where it should be, viz. at the Center.

At the town meeting not much was accomplished on account of the disturbing element, and after passing a motion for the selectmen to require a bond from all road contractors to the amount of contract annually, the meeting adjourned till Monday next at 10 a. m., when the treasurer's report will be read and all other unfinished business transacted, and at 11 o'clock the contracting of the roads for three years will be in order.

The result of the voting on Monday was as follows :
Assessors, Albert D. Smith, Geo. P. Sanford.
Board of Relief, William M. Hubbell, George Andrew, Frederick W. Hubbell.
Town Clerk and Registrar of Vital Statistics, Lewis Barnes.
Town Treasurer and Treasurer of School and Deposit Fund, Chas. H. Butler.
Selectmen, Frederick C. Candee, Clark E. Lum, George R. Baldwin.
Auditors, Elijah B. Treat, John Harger.
School Visitors, David Hawley and Samuel Hawkins for three years, and John Harger for two years.
Tax Collector, Anthony B. Hinman,
Grand Jurors, Atwater Treat, Albert D. Smith, Henry S. Atwood, Cornelius C. Rider, Henry E. Smith, James H. Wheeler.
Constables, Anthony B. Hinman, LeGrand W. Lake, George Andrew, William O. Davis, Bennett A. Treat, Charles A. French, Joseph O. Searles.
Registrars of Voters, David C. Riggs, Egbert J. Thrall. 
Road Commissioner, David C. Riggs.


QUAKER FARMS.

On Monday evening Thomas Colyer broke one of the bones in his left leg by a fall in the dark. He was taken to the house of Arthur Hinman and attended by Dr. Barnes. Mr. Colyer is a welldigger by occupation, and was engaged in digging a well for Wm. Lewis, working his way down into the rock by the aid of dynamite.


EARLY HISTORY OF THE
Oxford Congregational Church. 

14.
Att a society meetting Lawfully Warned and held in the Parrish of oxford att the ineetting Houfe on the sixth Day of february, 1743-4.

Capt. John Lunim by a major vote is Chofen modderator for said meetting.

Voted and past in said meetting to Levey a Rate of nine pence upon the pound in the old Tenour upon the List on the year 1743, to Defray the ministerial Charges in said society.

Voted and past in said meetting that Joseph Tomlifon fhail be a collector to collect aud gather said nine peney Rate by the first of march nex infuing.

Voted and past in said meeting to give mr Darbin a call upon probation.

this meeting is ajurned by a major vote to the first monday in April next infuing att ye meetting houfe.
Test pr me 
ISAAC TROWBRIDGE, 
Society Clerk.


15.
Att a Society meetting held by ajurnment on the first monday in aprill, 1744, att ye meetting Houfe in ye Parrifh of oxford.

Voted and past in sd meeting that ye ministers that are settled acording to ye Eftablishment of this Government shall have free Liberty to come and preach ye Gospel to us if they are so Difpofed without being expofed to ye pennalty of sd Law.

this meetting is ajurned by a major vote to ye first monday in may next to ye Houfe of Cap* John Luinm.

Test pr me, 
ISAAC TROWBRIDGE,
Society Clerk.


16.

Att a society meeting held by an ajurnment att ye Houfe of Capt John Lumm on ye first monday in may, 1744, Joseph Trowbridge was chofen clerk for said Day.

Voted & past att said meetting that Leit. Ebenezer Riggs and sarjant Isaac Knowles and mr Joseph Lewis to be a committee to Run ye Lines of ye Parrish of oxford between ye Towns of Derby, Woodbury & Waterbury.

Voted and past in said meeting that the ministers committee, Isaac Trowbridge, Abial Fairchild, Josiah Perry are empowered to bring in a minister upon hier, or upon probation.

Said meetting is ajurned by a major vote to ye second Thurs Day in June next att ye meetting houfe att 3 of ye Clock in ye afternoon.
Test pr me, 
ISAAC TROWBRIDGE,
Society Clerk.



AMONG THE RELICS. 
An old deed given by Ebenezer Johnson to his sons Timothy and Charles, seems worthy to be published entire.

Know all men by thefe presents that Ebenezer Johnson, of Derby, in the county of New-Haven, in the Collony of Connecticut, in New-England, from the parentall love and affection which I bear to my two sons, Timothy Johnson and Charles Johnfon of Derby aforesaid. Have therefore given, granted, aliened, enffeoffed and firmly made over, and by thefe presents I do freely give, grant, alien, enffeoffe and firmly make over unto my sd. two sons, Timothy Johnson and Charles Johnson, and each of their heirs and afsigns forever in equall proportion, to Lay my whole farm at Rimmon so called in the township of Derby; the boundarys and quantity is discovered by the Records of Derby (reference thereunto being had)  and as for the buildings upon sd. Farm, the new houfe I give solely to my sd. son Timothy Johnfon, and the barn I give to my sd. sons Timothy and Charles equally as to the right and property thereof: and notwithstanding this deed of gift I reserve the old houfe upon the farm for my own ufe; and alfo Liberty to ufe, occupie and  Improve twenty acres anywhere in sd. Farm where I pleafe and when I pleafe, during my natural life.  The whole of sd. farm and buildings thereupon,  (except what is above excepted and referved;) with all the priveledges, appurtenances, and profits thereof; as grafs, herbage, timber, stone, &c: To Have and To Hold to them the sd: Timothy Johnson and Charles Johnfon, and each of their heirs and afsigns forever, in such manner and proportion as above ftated ; without any manner of Let, hindrance or molestation given any manner of way, from me the sd. Ebenezer Johnfon or any of my other heirs, executors or administrators.    

In confirmation of the above written premifses, I the sd. Ebenezer Johnfon have hereunto set my hand and seal, this twenty fifth day of January in the seventh Year of his Majesty's Reign, King George of great Britain and amn. Annoqz Dom: 1720—21. 
Signed and fealed Ebenezer Johnfon.
in pretence of us. 
Jos'. Whiting. 
Hannah Whiting.

Conecticut, fs. New haven, January 25th, 1720. Coll. Ebenezer Johnfon the enfealler of the above Inftrument perfonally appeared and acknowledged the same to be his free and volluntary act and Deed Before Mee.
Jos'. Whiting Juftice of peace.

The above deed was recorded by Joseph Moss, town clerk, in Derby Records, vol. 3d, p. 311.

Another, deed before us was given by Charles Johnson to his brother Timothy, to fulfill the request of his father, then deceased, conveying 20 acres, "where he pleaseth," "in the farm at Rimmon," also six or seven acres "known as Rigg's meadow." This is dated May 8, 1728.

Another was given by John Harger of Derby to Timothy Johnson, for the sum of £40, conveying about seven acres of meadow land on the east side of Rock Rimmon. This deed was witnessed by Daniel Humphrey and Samuel Gunn, justice of the peace, and recorded by Timothy Russell, town 

A fourth was given by Israel Johnson to Timothy Johnson, Dec. 12, 1743, conveying "one certain parcell of land," "lying on ye northward part of Towantnck Hill, within ye north purchase Land, (being ye southward part of ye alotment layed out to ye right of my honoured Grand Father, Coll. Johnson, late of Derby, deceased) containing by estimation one hundred &s twenty acres : bounded east with ye other tear of lots : southward with land of Capt John Riggs and Mr John Brinsmaid, westward on a highway," &c, also 180 acres bounded southerly on land of Ebenezer Harger, deceased. This was witnessed by Samll Basit, justice of the peace, and Samuel Weed, and recorded by Charles French, Sr., Reg.

SOUTHFORD AND SEYMOUR STAGE

I wish to give notice that I shall continue to my Stage as heretofore, carrying passengers light freight and doing errands as cheap as any, and even cheaper if the public desire it. I wish to thank the people who have so nobly stood by me in the past for their liberal patronage, especially since losing the mail, and hope to receive the same in future. Respectfully,
CLARK DAVIS


SOUTHFORD STAGE NOTICE.
Will leave Southford Depot at 7.15, Southford post-office at 7.30; Oxford at 8.10 ; arriving at Seymour in time for the 9 o'clock train.   Will leave Seymour on arrival of the 10.36 train, arriving Southford at l p. m.   All orders left at either of the above named post-offices will be promptly attended to.   Fares: From Southford to Seymour, 25c.; Oxford to Seymour, 15c; Southbury to Seymour, 35c.
H. T. EDWARDS.

SCANS:
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1536.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1537.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1538.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1539.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1540.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1541.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1542.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1543.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_10-05_Seymour-Record/SCAN1544.JPG
