1883_10-05_Seymour-Record

Today's Old News is from the October 5 1883 issue of the Seymour Record. Today's Old Photo is of Glover Cable, mentioned in the news, who built the first sugar mill in Cuba.

OXFORD.

Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Snow were in town this week.

Walter Perry and John Barnes have commenced their studies at the Williton Seminary, Easthampton, Mass.

George Hawley moves to Seymour this week with his family in order to be nearer his work.

The Guild meets this week at the residence of Dr. Lewis Barnes, on Saturday evening.

Mrs. G. W. Cable has been on a visit of about a week to her parents in Boston.

Rev. Mr. Spaulding of New Haven officiated in the Congregational church last Sunday and is expected next Sunday.

There was a Sunday School concert in the Congregational church last Sunday afternoon.

The Ladies society of St. Peter's church will meet at the rectory on Friday afternoon and evening of this week.

Glover W. Cable expects to start for St. Domingo next week. He goes in the employ of Franklin Farrel, who is to build in connection with his sugar interests there.

Thomas Collyer who works for Meigs Brothers, Quaker Farms, broke a leg by stepping off the side of the path while walking along the highway last Monday evening.  Dr. Barnes was called in.

At the republican caucus delegates were elected as follows, County, W. W. Hughes, R. B. Limburner; Senatorial, E. J. Thrall, Wales Chatfield, R. G. Robinson, F. W. Hubbell.

The office of 1st selectman is now located where it should be, viz. at the Center.

At the town meeting not much was accomplished on account of the disturbing element, and after passing a motion for the selectmen to require a bond from all road contractors to the amount of contract annually, the meeting adjourned till Monday next at 10 a. m., when the treasurer's report will be read and all other unfinished business transacted, and at 11 o'clock the contracting of the roads for three years will be in order.

The result of the voting on Monday was as follows :
Assessors, Albert D. Smith, Geo. P. Sanford.
Board of Relief, William M. Hubbell, George Andrew, Frederick W. Hubbell.
Town Clerk and Registrar of Vital Statistics, Lewis Barnes.
Town Treasurer and Treasurer of School and Deposit Fund, Chas. H. Butler.
Selectmen, Frederick C. Candee, Clark E. Lum, George R. Baldwin.
Auditors, Elijah B. Treat, John Harger.
School Visitors, David Hawley and Samuel Hawkins for three years, and John Harger for two years.
Tax Collector, Anthony B. Hinman,
Grand Jurors, Atwater Treat, Albert D. Smith, Henry S. Atwood, Cornelius C. Rider, Henry E. Smith, James H. Wheeler.
Constables, Anthony B. Hinman, LeGrand W. Lake, George Andrew, William O. Davis, Bennett A. Treat, Charles A. French, Joseph O. Searles.
Registrars of Voters, David C. Riggs, Egbert J. Thrall. 
Road Commissioner, David C. Riggs.

QUAKER FARMS.
On Monday evening Thomas Colyer broke one of the bones in his left leg by a fall in the dark. He was taken to the house of Arthur Hinman and attended by Dr. Barnes. Mr. Colyer is a welldigger by occupation, and was engaged in digging a well for Wm. Lewis, working his way down into the rock by the aid of dynamite.

SOUTHFORD AND SEYMOUR STAGE
I wish to give notice that I shall continue to my Stage as heretofore, carrying passengers light freight and doing errands as cheap as any, and even cheaper if the public desire it. I wish to thank the people who have so nobly stood by me in the past for their liberal patronage, especially since losing the mail, and hope to receive the same in future. 
Respectfully, CLARK DAVIS

SOUTHFORD STAGE NOTICE. Will leave Southford Depot at 7.15, Southford post-office at 7.30; Oxford at 8.10; arriving at Seymour in time for the 9 o'clock train. Will leave Seymour on arrival of the 10.36 train, arriving Southford at l p. m. All orders left at either of the above named post-offices will be promptly attended to. 
Fares: From Southford to Seymour, 25c.; Oxford to Seymour, 15c; Southbury to Seymour, 35c.
H. T. EDWARDS.