1883_09-28_Seymour-Record

EARLY HISTORY OF THE Oxford Congregational Church. 

11.
Att a society meetting Lawfully warned and Held in Parish of oxford on the 21 dayof June, 1743, att the meeting Houfe, mr Ebenezer Riggs by a major vote was chosen Moderator ror said meeting, This meetting is ajurned by a major vote to the third monday in September next att Eight of ye Clock in ye morning at ye meeting Houfe.

Test pr me 
ISAAC TB 'WBRIDGE, 
Society Clerk.

12
Att a society meeting in the Parrish of oxford held att ye meeting house on the 19th day of September, 1743, by an ajurnment.

Voted and past in said meeting that Isaac Trowbridge that was chosen agent for sd society of oxford to go to the General assembly att Hartford in may Last to obtain a Land Tax. Shall Draw money out of the Laft 12 peney Kate made as much as his charges was in said busnefs.

Voted and paft in said meeting to hier a minister upon probation.

Voted and paft in Baid meeting that the Last minister committee namely. mr John Lumm, mr abiail Faircbild, mr Josiah Perry shall be a committee with full power power to hier a minister upon probation.

Voted and past in said meetting that said Trowbridge shall further more Draw as much money out of the Last 12 peney Rate granted: as to answer what is due to sd Isaac Trowbridge upon y account of what said Trowbridge paid for mr Elisha marsh in behalf of ye society.

Voted and past in said meetting that the meetting House committee, viz.: mr John Chattfield, mr John Lumm, mr Roger Purkins shall be a committee with full power to Receive the money of ye first years Land Tax in order for the carring on of building of the meetting houfe.

Test pr me, ISAAC TROWBRIDGE,
Society Clerk.


13.
Att a Society meetting Lawfully warned and held att ye meetting houfe in the Parrish of oxford on the 19th Day of December, 1743.

Lieut. Ebenezar Riggs by a major vote was chosen moderator for said meetting.

Isaac Trowbridge by, a major vote was chosen society clerk.

Voted and past in said meeting that Lieut. Ebeneezer Riggs, mr Isaac Knowies, mr Joseph Lewis shall be the Society's committee for the year insuing.

Voted and past in said meeting that mr Abiail Fairchild, mr Josiah Perry, Isaac Trowbridge, shall be a committee with full power to hier a minister upon probation.

Voted and past in meeting that the Society's committee shall have full power to Reckon with all ye Collectors and to Receive the money that shall be collected.

this meeting is ajurned by a major vote to the second Day of January next, att ye meetting houfe att 8 of ye aclock in ye morning.

Test pr me, 
ISAAC TROWBRIDGE,
Society Clerk.


SOUTHFORD.

The long continued drouth is a serious drawback to the farmers. The aftermath that they depend on for fall feed is not here. It must ineviablv raise the prices of butter and milk.

Leaves are falling prematurely on account of early frosts, and together with the cool nights make all nature seem wintry.

Two stages from this place to Seymour daily.

Erastus Burr and son are digging a well near their barn.

Mrs. Warren Stowe returned home last Saturday. She is in poor health.

Miss Ella Scott returned to her home in Hartford last week.

Charles Stone is taking apples at his cider mill in Southbury daily, also J. Wheeler of this place.

A few days since, as Mrs. E. J. Perry was passing from the door to the well she she stepped on some sharp object which penetrated her foot and broke off. Dr. Shove was telegraphed for and on his arrival he made an incision in her foot nearly two inches in length, and took out a piece of rusty metal nearly an inch long. The operation was necessarily a very painful one, but Mrs. Perry bore it bravely.


COL. EBENEZER JOHNSON.

This old veteran of the Indian wars lived on the hill north of Rock Rimmon and east of the watering trough put up by the late James Wheeler. The old road ran along the top of the hill, and Col. Johnson's house was on this road. 

It was here that Mrs. Johnson's bear hunt occurred. One day she saw a bear pass the door and, taking down her husband's rifle from its accustomed resting place, she followed the bear out through the cornfield and until it climbed a tree. Taking good aim as it paused upon a branch, she fired and brought down the game.

Col. Johnson was prominent in the colonial transactions with the Indians and his commission may be seen in the library of the New Haven Colony Historical Society, to which it was presented by Justice Leavenworth, of Seymour, to whom also we are indebted for the use of an old letter regarding Indian affairs in New Milford, written 158 years ago, the text of which we give below. It is a curiosity in the style of expression and in the neatness and regularity with which it is written, on a sheet of handmade paper 7ixl2 inches, unruled and brown, with a curious watermark which we have not been able to decipher. 

To coll. Ebenezer Johnson att Derby.
Sir: after my love presented to you hoping that these Lines may rind yon in health, as through God's goodness to me I am at present—these Lines may inform yon that this morning the Indians belonging to our town came to me by way of complaint that they lookr upon themselves wronged by cap1 Stephen Noble taking up a Division of land near the point between the Great River and the Still River, and where some of them had improvement: By which means they say what shall we eat if we have not our Ground to plant corn upon : and Besides this they say it was not sold to the English, but was Reserved for their own use as an Intrest in common to all that did Inhabit there, and to my certain knowledge they have dwelt upon said point and Improved for the time I have lived in the town : therefore my request to you for is that you would assist the Indians in Endeavoring to Recover their Right : because that I have been Informed that you have formerly had aquaintance with the management of things in the first beginings here-and finding in the deed given to milford Gentlemen no more of Reserve but only these words : It is to be noted that the above named Indians do Reserve for their use their present planting field : and a privilidge of fishing at the falls—and this set down after the dating of it. now sir my desire is that Right may be done in this case, for I am well satisfied that if this neck of land be not Restored to them there will Remain a disgust which may prove prejudicial to some if not to all in generall — and now the Generall Court being near it would be a good thing to have the matter laid before the Court that they may give their Judgment in the case: no more at present but Rest your friend and servant,

Samll Brownson, Justice of Peace. Dated in New Milford, May 1st, 1725.


OXFORD.

The daughter of George R Baldwin was badly scalded one day last week.

Dr. Barnes had a call from a partridge last Monday morning, but his birdship knocked so hard for admittance that death ensued.

Eugene A Wyant of Seymour has purchased of D. T. Dunham the Allen place, on the east side of the river, in the lower part of the town.

Mrs. French, house keeper for Thos. W. Holbrook, was bitten in one arm by S. C. Wheeler's dog while passing along the highway last Monday morning.

Several schools commence next Monday. Fred. A. Bailey is teacher at the center and Miss Kittie Barnes of Ansonia at Red City. Miss Susan Tucker has already commenced teaching the Red Oak school.

The stage war is still raging and it is reported that the fare from Southford to Seymour was only ten cents on Wednesday. A free ride from Oxford may soon be expected. When there is a premium for passengers and dinner furnished in Seymour there may be business enough for two stages.


QUAKER FARMS.
The apple crop is a failure. Mr. Horace Hinman is somewdiat better.

Mrs. Bidwell contemplates moving to Bridgeport.

There will be a temperance meeting at Mr. H. E. Tomlinson's, Wednesday evening, October 10th. If unpleasant first fair evening.


SOUTHFORD.
Mrs. E. Wheeler is the recipient of a liberal gift from her son in New Haven, of a horse, harness, and carriage.

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Morris has returned from their wedding trip. Mrs. M. is expected to remain in Southford for the winter.

Arthur E. Curtiss, late of Naugatuck, has been called from West Troy, N. Y. to a position in Steinway's meat market in Ansonia.

When are we to hear the hum of the long promised grist mill? Many that now clinb the tedious bills to Olmstead's mill would rejoice to have the promise fulfilled.

Service is still held in the Chapel sabbath evenings. Could the two meetings that are held on the same evening be united it seems as though much more good might be accomplished.

The paper mill in this place is working but half time on account of low water, the supply from Quassapaug being exhausted. The water in the lake is lower than it has been for sixty years.

The proprietor of the store is hastening its completion. It will be a good thing for Southford and will keep at home much of the trade which now goes to a distance, as people here are disposed to encourage home enterprise.


SQUANTUCK.

The river has been very low for the past two weeks, not running over the dam except on Monday mornings.

Mr. Lester Whittier has taken Mrs. A. J. Downs' farm, and has moved in with his family. Mrs. Downs will board with them.

Mrs. Mary A. Stow from Pennsylvania has taken a part of Mrs. Blakeslee's house, and gone to housekeeping with her children.

The peach festival at J. W. Tomlinson's two weeks ago netted the Ladies' Aid Society nearly thirty dollars. They have managed in this way to raise money enough to carpet the main body of the church and painted the inside, both upstairs and down.  Mrs. Tolles has been untiring in her efforts to keep the church in good repair, and when she leaves us (which she is soon to do) we shall lose a kind neighbor and the church one of its main spokes, but may her usefulness still continue.

Mrs. D. B. Tolles was the recipient of a very pleasant surprise party on Wednesday evening. She was unexpectedly called from home in the afternoon and purposely detained until evening. On reaching home she found the house brilliantly illuminated and well filled with friends from far and near. The tables were already set and loaded down with the good things brought in by the visitors. Mrs. T. was presented by the people of Great Hill with a center table, with a handsome hanging lamp by her near neighbors, a handsome dinner set by her children, and a picture handsomely framed. Appropriate remarks were made by Rev. H. Q. Judd and Dr. A. Beardsley. The whole affair passed off pleasantly and was a merited expression of esteem and goodwill.

SCANS:
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1527.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1528.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1529.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1530.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1531.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1532.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1533.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1534.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_09-28_Seymour-Record/SCAN1535.JPG


