1882_03-23_Seymour-Record

Today's Old News is from the March 23, 1882 issue of the Seymour Record. The paper mentioned two topics of special interest to the Historical Society as we are planning our programs for the coming months. The article talks about the store at Zoar Bridge which was kept by the toll collector in Stevenson and also about the increase in train traffic at the train station in Southford. Today's old photos include a photo of the store at Zoar Bridge, and a photo of the Oxford Station in Southford.

The Historical Society will hold a program on the history of the old New York & New England RR (later part of the New York, New Haven & Hartford RR) which ran through Oxford presented by Don Larson on Monday, July 29, and will sponsor a talk on the 100th anniversary of the first power generation from the Stevenson Dam by John Babina on November 17. Be sure to like our facebook page (@oxfordhistorical) to get future details on these special programs.

OXFORD

A collection will be taken up in the Congregational church next Sunday morning for the Connecticut State Bible Society. Notice of this collection was omitted by oversight last Sunday.

A council of churches will meet in the Congregational church next Tuesday, Mar. 28th, to take action in regard to Rev. Mr. Snow's resignation.

QUAKER FARMS

Mr. Samuel Hubbell's house was considerably damaged by fire the other Sunday evening.

We are glad to learn that Mr. and Mrs. Roswell Seeley have been so kindly remembered by their friends out of town as well as by those nearer home.

Mrs. H. P. Folley returned last week to her home in Bridgeport. She has been spending a time here with her mother, Mrs. Horace Hinman, who has been very ill for a number of weeks.

Preston Hinman has been suffering from lumbago for several days.

Mrs. S. S. Hine, who has for several months been failing with consumption, passed away last Wednesday night. Her funeral was attended from the church Saturday, Rev. Mr Snow officiating.

Albert Chatfield has commenced restocking his farm and preparing to begin anew the warfare of life.

Smith Downs is ailing from the effects of malaria.

ZOAR BRIDGE

The robins have returned to cheer us with their songs once more, but at this writing the north winds do most fiercely blow, and what will Poor Robin do now, poor thing, poor thing.

The river for the past month has been very high, owing to so much rain falling.

We have great reason to be thankful that the prevailing high winds have not proved so disastrous here as in so many other places

C. T. Sherwood took possession of the Zoar bridge and store the first of March and is getting his store will filled with supplies, so that the community bid fair to have all their needs in the line of groceries as well supplied by him as they were by his predecessor.

SOUTHFORD

The weather of late has been fine with the exception of some March wind and our farmers are looking for an early spring. As there is but little frost in the ground, some of them have already been talking about plowing, &c.

The work on the new paper mill is progressing finely. When completed it will be a large building and a great improvement to the place.

The business on the N.Y. and N.E. rail road is continually increasing. A large number of trains pass through this place both night and day. The brick for the new paper mill is left at our depot.

Miss Anna Bronson of Oxford commenced teaching her summer term in Hull's Hill school district last Monday, the 20th.