Samuel Candee

The following statement in regard to Sauel Candee, formerly of Oxford and an ancestor of some of our readers, is vouched for by Wm. Dudley, Commissioner of theDepartment of the Interior, Pension Office:

He entered the service at Derby, May 1st, 1775,  in Lieut. Bradford Steel's company, in Col. Wooster's Connecticut regiment; marched to Boston, and was immediately appointed sergeant, the warrant being signed by Col. Wooster, but is lost.

He remained at the seige of that city during his seven month's term of enlistment, which expired Jan 1, 1776, but he was persuaded by his officers to remain 20 days longer.

In July, 1776, he was a sergeant in a company of Woodbridge militia, then a part of New Haven, when the entire company was called to it to go to New York city, and they left Woodbridge on the 23rd of July. On their arrival they were ordered to Long Island, being attached to Col. Thompson's Connecticut regiment, where the company was engaged in several skirmishes with the enemy, followed by the retreat of the army to New York, and the evacuation of the city. While engaged in throwing up entrenchments, the British sailed up the East River, landed at Turtle Bay, and on Sunday, Septemer 15, and engagement ensued and the enemy retreated to New York. Col. Thompson's regiment was the last to retire from the occupation of the city, and he was killed in one of the battles that occurred soon after. Samuel Candee and his brother Job, who was in Capt. Beecher's company, and Col Thompson's regiment, were both standing near him when he was killed, and but a minute previously had been conversing with him.

He volunteered as sargeant under Capt. John Riggs, of Oxford, where he was at the time, for service, which continued six weeks, when the British invaded New Haven, Julyt, 1779, and burned Fairfield about the 9th of the same month, but before their arrival at the latter town, the place was destroyed, and the British were on their retreat to their vessels, but they were as a guard at Fairfield, Stratford, stationed and New Haen during the remainder of the time they were held to service on account of teh apprehended danger of another approach of the enemy.

He was born in Derby, December 15, 1753, and his decease is on the records of this office as January 3, 1841.

His residence is alleged by some of the witnesses as of Oxford, but when enlisting in 1775-6 he was living in Derby and Woodbridge, and in 1779 in Oxford, and was in the later town in 1833, when the above statement was made. Since the war he has resided in Derby and Oxford.

He was allowed a pension of 1833 of $57.50 per annum, to commence in accordance with the act, March 4, 1831.

Aunt Patty Candee, now living with Smith Wheeler, is a daughter of the Samiel Candee above named. She was born Jan. 3, 1792, and is consequently 91 years of age. Her brother Jason was at one time Mayor of Baton Rouge, La.
