1882_June 30_Seymour Record

SQUANTUCK

A. F. Downs is having his barn shingled.
The rose bugs are destroying all the apples about here.
Mr. F. M. Clemon's mother has been spending a few days with them.
Mr. Clemons and Mr. Jones have been giving their places a new coat of paint.
Mrs. Fairchild has returned from her visit, feeling much improved in health.
Mr. Peet commenced haying last week on the other side of the river. The hay crop is light here this season.
E. H. Tomlinson has returned from San Domingo, where he has been looking after his sugar plantation.
Miss Alice Tomlinson has been quite poorly since the death of her mother. She has a nurse from New Haven hospital.
Geo. Blakesley has returned and is keeping house at the saw mill. He is about on crutches but not able to do any work.
Peter and Edwin Tomlinson have been putting in a large circular saw to keep up with the increasing demand for wood and timber.
The festival on Tuesday evening was well attended although the weather was rather cool.  Nearly every thing was disposed of and netted quite a nice amount. The singing by the Glee Club of Seymour was highly appreciated.

OXFORD

Fourth of July has commenced as the snapping of small guns abundantly testifies.
Rev. E. W. Potwine will hold a farewell reception next Monday evening between eight and ten p.m. A general invitation is extended for his friends to be present.
The ladies of the Congregational society will give an Ice Cream and Strawberry festival, at the Town Hall Tuesday afternoon and evening, July 4th. A good time is anticipated.
John McCune, operator and linesman for the Mutual Telegraph Co. here for the past 14 months, has gone into the employ of the Conn. Telephone Co., New Haven.
Rev. Mr. Potwine will preach for the last time in St. Peter's next Sunday. Rev. Samuel R. Bailey of the Diocese of Main is also expected to be present and assist in the services.

SOUTHFORD
Potatoes bugs have come on this season with full forces.
The warm weather of late has caused grass and vegetation to look nicely.
The ladies of this place held a festival last Thursday evening. There was a goodly number present and they had a very pleasant time.
The work on the new paper mill is progressing finely. There is quite a large number o men employed. When completed it will make Southford quite a business place.

