2019_06-29_FB_1883_06-08_Seymour-Record

Today's "Old News" mentions railroads twice - once when a pastor misses the train in order to preach on time, and later detailing a tragic fatality at the Southford Station. Today's graphic promotes the Historical Society's July 29 Railroad program featuring former Oxford resident Donald Woodworth. 

OXFORD

The Christian street closed on the 4th.

Frederick Lum did not start for the West till last Monday.

Harriet Adams was taken into the M. E. church by letter last Sunday.

C. H. Butler has views of the Brooklyn Bridge for sale. See advertisement.

The selectmen were looking after delinquent dog owners last Wednesday.

John Wilson, formerly in the employ of the woolen company as a spinner, sailed on Wednesday from New York for England.

The Southford and Seymour stage, on and after Monday next, will leave ten minutes earlier than heretofore, on account of the change of train time.

Dr. Barnes is a delegate to the meeting of the Medical Association which is in session in Cleveland, O., this week. Mrs. B. accompanied him and we believe they intend to visit other places in the West before their return.

The first party of the season visited Quassapaug last Tuesday evening, where they joined a party of young people from other sections and no doubt had a very enjoyable time, as is generally the experience of those who visit this beautiful lake.

The Ladies’ Society of St. Peter's church will meet at the residence of Mrs. John Hawley on Thursday afternoon and evening of next week. It is especially desirable that there be a full attendance, when it will be decided whether the Society will hold a festival this season or not, and if so, when and where, and make other necessary arrangements.

Mr. McCrackan having missed the train at Hartford last Saturday evening, those who assembled for service at St. Peter's church last Sunday morning were disappointed, as no one put in an appearance to officiate, so the attendance at the Congregational church was increased to good proportions. Mr. McCracken, however, arrived in time for the afternoon service.

SOUTHFORD

A shocking accident occurred near the depot about 4 o'clock this morning. The conductor of the east bound freight missed two cars which had in some way become detached, and went back with an extra locomotive which happened to be at depot. Returning with the missing cars, a flying switch was made and the conductor stepped off the regular train, forgetful that the two cars were coming on behind him, and was horribly crushed and mangled, death being instantaneous. The following jury was impanelled: Henry Wheeler, foreman; T. S. Wheeler, Clark Davis, Horace Oatman, Charles Oatman, David Roberts, Wm. Johnson, Gilbert A. Robertson, Munson Hine, George Robertson, Christopher Tappan and Elmer Smith. A verdict of accidental death was returned in accordance with the facts as stated above.

 