1883_09-14_Seymour-Record

Today's Old News is from the September 14, 1883 issue of the Seymour Record. It features stories of a strange summer weather season, and news of the schools opening in the fall, and an untimely death. Now, 136 years later, those topics still are matters of conversation today. No matter how much things change, we still have the same concerns and interests of our forefathers and mothers had.  Today's old photos are of the Shrub Oak School with teacher and students, plus two photos of the Southford School, one for when it was a simple schoolhouse and the second as it appears today as a small house with a simple addition to the side. 

FROSTS, 1883-1816.

This year of 1883 will be remembered for its laggard spring, cool summers and early frosts. Half a million dollars damage has been done, in Connecticut and the region just north of us, by early September frosts. Monday night brought a ruinous frost; slighter ones have followed, and now, on the morning of September 10, there comes another sharp one. 

This one has about "finished up" what tobacco still remained uncut, and a good deal did remain, because, owing to the backward season, it had not matured sufficiently for housing. Hundreds of tobacco-growers along the lower Connecticut are sufferers by the frost, and will not be so well off in the aggregate by hundreds of thousands of dollars as they would had the season been a warm and late one this fall, as everybody expected. 

It is to be regretted, but it can't be helped. There has been no such spring, summer and (thus far) autumn, since the year 1816, the memorable "year without a summer," which was much worse than this year, the corn failing to ripen everywhere in New England, and frosts every month.

The tobacco crop seemed to be an unusually good one this year, giving promise of a superior quality and good price. Perhaps a little more than half of it has been saved.—Hartford Times.

The frost in the eastern part of the state was so heavy Sunday night that it destroyed many fields of buckwheat. 

One Griswold farmer claims to have lost a crop worth $100 by it.

BORN
DeForest — In Seymour, Sept. 5th, a daughter to Isaac F. and Eliza Deforest. 
Goss — In Southford, Sept. 1st, twins, boys, to Frank E. Cross.
Lemley—In Seymour, Sept. 6th, a daughter to E. T. and Emma Lemley.

GREAT HILL.

The ladies of the Great Hill M. E. church will hold a peach festival at the house of J. W. Tomlinson this (Friday) evening.

At the annual meeting of the Great Hill M. E. church James W. Tomlinson was elected a trustee for three years. Eli Gillette and J. W. Tomlinson were appointed tythingmen.

Mrs. Daniel B. Tolles, the president of the Ladies' Aid Society, was the recipient, last Saturday, of a handsome piece of plush for the desk of the Great Hill church, from Mr. Tingue of Seymour. The society tender their thanks for the gift, and their wish is that his years, like his gifts, may be many.


SOUTHFORD.

Miss Jessie Curtiss is teaching the Southford school.

Miss Estella Curtiss is teaching the Shrub Oak school, Oxford.

We are glad to learn that Edward O'Came, who has been sick with a fever, is out again.

Seven frosts together with the dry weather is making vegetables look brown and bare.

Frosts have become quite common.

Dry weather still continues and water has become scarce.

The peach and ice cream festival held in the chapel on Tuesday evening, Sept. 4th, was well attended.

Miss Ella Wheeler has taken the school in Wheelertown, or more properly speaking, the Quassapaug district.

Mrs. Warren Stowe of Hull's Hill has taken a trip to Amenia, N. Y., for her health. She was accompanied by Mrs. Charles Smith.

Miss Edith S. Jones has been engaged to teach the school in Hull's Hill district the coming winter. She will commence about the first of October.

Martin Stowe and family, with friends from New York State, have been to Milford Point during the past week.

Morton E. Dews, son of Ezra Dews, was accidentally shot through the heart last Sunday. William Bradley, a companion of Dews, had a pistol which he was examining. Dews took it to look at. As he was returning it, it was accidentally discharged, the ball passing directly through Dews' heart, killing him almost instantly.

