1883_03-30_Seymour-Record

OXFORD

Robert Downs is quite sick.

The youngest child of E. Wales Chatfield, which has been considered dangerously ill for a few days, is reported better.

Samuel Hubbell, of Quaker Farms, is to remove to this side and occupy the place soon to be vacated by his brother Lewis B. Hubbell.

The Easter decoations in St. Peter's church, which were more of a display than was at first expected, were not equal to those of last year.

A gentlemen representing Mr. Woolcot, the owner of the Oxford House, has been in town this week taking an inventory of the property.

John S. Barnes is through with his studies at Waterbury, and is soon to commence the spring and summer term of the Chestnut-tree Hill School.

The annual meeting of the Ladies Society of St. Peter's church will be held at the residence of Mrs. L. A. Can dee, on Thursday afternoon and evening of next week.

The jurors for the Court of Common Pleas drawn from this town are — A. W. Lnm, Henry Church, and Nathaniel H. Riggs, who are to report on Tuesday next.

At the annual parish meeting of St. Peter's church on Easter Monday, officers for the ensuing year were elected as follows:
Clerk, E. B. Treat.
Wardens, E. B. Treat, David Hawley.
Vestrymen, A. D. Smith, A. B. Hinman, H. S. Wheeler, C. H. Butler.
Treasurer and Collector, C. H. Butler.
Sexton, R. B. Hinman.
Tythingmen, A. B. Hinman, D. Hawley.
Ushers, W. S. Barnes, H. P. Williams.
Delegate, David Hawley.
Substitute, C. H. Butler.

Last Thursday evening friends and neighbors to a goodly number made Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Perkins a farewell call previous to their removal to Middletown, which will be in about two weeks.

SOUTHFORD.

Religious services are held at our little church every Sunday evening.

Quite a number of families are about to change their places of residence. 

The school on Hull's Hill commences its summer term this week. Miss Jones is the teacher.

The school at Kettletown closed its winter term last week. It was taught by Miss Susan Tucker of Oxford.

Henry Wheeler is contemplating building a new house the coming season. A. W. Cook & Son are getting the frame ready.

GREAT HILL.

Rev. C. W. Lyon is expected to preach here next Sunday afternoon, and probationers will be received. The Seymour choir will assist in the service.

SQUANTUCK.

The ice all disappeared out of the river, last week, without leaving so much as a cake on the banks.

Charles Gilbert has moved away to his farm on Zoar, and rented the house here to A. Huggins.

Edwin Tomlinson has got his wind mill in position once more.

P. & E. Tomlinson are driven with orders at their mill.

Mrs. Fairchild has gone to her daughter's in Wood bridge.

Mrs. Clemeus is in want of help to do housework.

Isaac Tomlinson moved into Squantuck on Thursday.

Rev. Mr. Lyon made us a visit on Wednesday.

ZOAR BRIDGE.

Religious services are conducted in our little church every Sunday morning by Rev. Mr. Dikeman.

Mr. Noe has recovered from his recent sickness and is out again.

Death continues to work among us. We have now to record the sudden death of Nellie, youngest daughter of John Dillon, at the age of thirteen years. She was a bright and active girl, beloved by all who knew her. The funeral took place on Thursday, the 22d inst. Burial in Ansonia.

Mrs. Abigail Ford died in Washington, Litchfield county, the 23d, aged 102 years and 6 months.


SCANS:
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_03-30_Seymour-Record/SCAN1442.JPG
http://www.oxfordpast.com/Seymour-record/1883/1883_03-30_Seymour-Record/StitchSCAN1440-SCAN1441.JPG
