1866_10-29_THE-FARMER

Monday, October 29

The performances of Mr. Theodore D. Weed in matrimonial arrangements, are yet the topic of conversation. It appears he was in a great hurry from the start, and got the consent of the girl to marry him, after an acquaintance of only eight days, notwithstanding she was, at the same time, engaged to another person. It appears, too that her parents, from the beginning, were opposed to the man's attentions to the girl, and refused their consent to her marrying him. Her brothers and sisters took a strong dislike to him at once, and tried to dissuade her from receiving his addresses and form entertaining his proposals to marry.

But the man had secured his confidence, he ear, her heart, and she refused to listen to the voice of her parents and all others. He imposed upon her by false representations, by his pretensions to wealth, high standing,"rich relation," etc., etc. 

She came to Bridgeport with him, [Weed,] and was herself witness to his brazen villainy in going to the stores and ordering costly dresses, bonnets, gloves, hosiery, &c., for the decoration of her person, to the amount of near seven hundred dollars. Unacquainted with the tricks of knaves and swindlers, honest and confiding, she was dazzled, blinded and deceived by what she saw and heard, and yielded herself a willing victim to his base seductions and black-hearted rascality. 

The marriage was to be a public affair, on a grand scale, at the church. Bishop Williams was written to and engaged to perform the ceremony, and two or three other clergymen were to assist at the altar. A grand reception was then to be given at the house of her parents; and then a grand wedding tour was to be made. Believing all this to be genuine, honest and true, the simple minded girl, no doubt, was the happiest creature in the whole town of Oxford.

In the matter of a new suit for himself, the fellow was entirely frustrated. He went first, it appears, to the store of Messrs. Wheaton & Hyde, but they declined the job, mainly because the time was too short in which to finish it. He then went to Wakeman & Johnson's, who reluctantly engaged to transform a frock coat into a dress coat for the grand occasion. All the particulars in the case, show that the fellow is a black hearted rascal. It is great misfortune that he should be allowed to escape unpunished.




