2018_10-13_FB_1866_10-27_THE-FARMER

Today's "Old News" is a follow-up news article from THE FARMER, a Bridgeport newspaper, dated October 27, 1866. It relates more information on the case of the Oxford "bride" in Bridgeport. This article reveals more information about the attempted swindle of the prospective groom. The last of three articles will be published on Sunday.

Saturday, October 27

We alluded, briefly on Saturday last, to the case of a man and woman, who obtained lodgings, the evening previous at the Atlantic Hotel in this city, under suspicious circumstances, and were taken into custody during the night, by an officer of the police. They were released Saturday morning and returned to Oxford, where they were said to belong. It appears they were here most of the time on Friday, before taking a room at the hotel. It appears also that the man was under an engagement to marry the woman, [belonging to a respectable family in Oxford;] that they went to the store of M. Kline & Brother and ordered a bridal hat, two traveling hats, ten pairs of kid gloves and other articles. They also went to the store of Taylor & Joyce and ordered silk dresses, traveling suit, cloak, &c. -- stipulating to have them made up and ready for delivery on Tuesday, the following week.  

The arrest and other circumstances at the hotel, caused some apprehensions on the part of the merchants, but they were quieted by explanations and assurances by the gentleman and lady. Thus the matter ended for the day and all fears were dismissed. On Tuesday, this week, the man and his affianced, came to Bridgeport again -- went to Kline's to see about the hats, and made further purchases of articles for the wedding; making, in all, a bill of $337. They also went to Taylor and Joyce's to see about the dresses.  At both places, the man stated that he was going in the train to New York, but would be back in the evening, when he would take the goods and pay his bills. 

He went off accordingly in the 2 o'clock train; leaving his woman here, who returned to Oxford, alone, in the afternoon train. The man came back, as agreed, from New York, in the 10 1-2 evening train; went to Kline's for his goods; found them all ready; but stated that he found the Bank closed in New York, and was consequently without sufficient money to pay the bill.  This being a "horse of another color," the Kline's objected to letting the goods go without the cash; and after some parleying, they consented to take his check on the New York Bank and send the goods to him the next day by Express. The same arrangement was made with Taylor & Joyce. 

The fellow then started off in a livery back to Oxford. The Kline's sent off their goods, as agreed, by Express; then telegraphed to the New York Bank, and received an answer saying that the man had no funds in that establishment. Taylor & Joyce had retained their goods, to await developments. The New York dispatch, of course, was sufficient to confirm the suspicions, which now were being entertained that the fellow was a swindler, and Mr. Kline started off for Oxford. Stopping at Seymour, he found the goods in the Express officer there, and secured them. Proceeding on to Oxford, he found the young lady at home and the family busily at work, making cake and other preparations for a grand wedding. On making his statement of what had transpired and the cause of his visit, all were confounded. They had indulged in fears and suspicious about the man, but he had quieted them by artful explanations and false statements. Thus matters were brought to a "focus" and the next thing in order was to fins the man. But he was gone. 

From various causes, the family that morning had become seriously distrustful of the man, and required better proof than he had furnished, that was all right with him; and to satisfy them, he proposed to go with one of them to Hartford, where he claimed to have "rich relations," who would furnish him money and give them evidence of his character and standing that would be satisfactory. Thither he had gone, with the sister older than the one he was to marry. On the way there, he left this lady at some point, and mysteriously disappeared. From that time nothing has been seen or heard of him.

It appears the gentleman concluded he would make a better show in a wedding garment, and went to Wakeman & Johnson's, where he was measured for a coat, to be sent to him by Express, and paid for on delivery. He also went to Davidson's and engaged head-dresses for his lady-love.

His wedding cards were obtained in New York, the bill for which is $51, but not paid. The hack-hire was paid for by his intended brother-in-law, after some sharp words between them on this subject; and this circumstance, it appears, led to the demand by the family to know more about the man, before going any further.

In Oxford, he went by the name of Leeds. His checks were signed Theodore D. Weed; and he said his home was Elmira, N. Y., where his father, a man of great wealth, resided.

