1884-02-29_SeymourRecord

OXFORD

W. H.  Perry returned to his studies on Tuesday.

There was a party at John Hawley's last Monday evening.

A pleasant Ash-Wednesday service was held at the residence of Mrs. L. A. Candee, conducted by Mr. McCracken.

Eugene C. Hull has rented and will soon move into the house of Ransom B. Hinman, near S. P. Sanford's grist-mill.

The Guild has been invited to meet this week Saturday evening at C. H. Butler's. During the Lenten season the exercises will be changed somewhat. All who desire to spend a pleasant evening are invited to any and all or these meetings.

SOUTHFORD

In the case of John B. Guthrie, of New Haven, against Alfred N. Wheeler and others, administrator of Elisha Wheeler of this place, the supreme court of errors finds judgment as follows: "We advise the superior court that the action of assumpsit may be maintained. That Wheeler was not technically a trustee, nor was he acting merely as executor, but was liable personally, consequently his estate is liable; that the plaintiff was entitled to one-half of the income annualy after the death of Mr. Guthrie. but was justified in withholding payment until after the will was finally established; that the plaintiff is not estopped from claiming the income during the time the will was in litigation; that the taxes, expenses of managing the estate, of hay purchased for stock and repairs on Bennett's bridge are to be paid out of the income, that loss of interest resulting from depositing the sum of $3,094.79 in the Townsend Savings bank should be borne by the estate of Elisha Wheeler; that the loss resulting from depositing income in said bank shold by borne by the plaintiff and his brother and that the defendants are liable for simple interest only during the time that the income was withheld from the plaintiff." Reasons by Chief Justice Park. The action is one to recover $4,000 loaned Elisha Wheeler in his lifetime and this suit was brought to recover from his estate. The decision is for the plaintiff.

